risk factors 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 56 backlog our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at december 31, 2009 and 2008, were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2009 2008 climate solutions $ 1,232.1 $ 1,259.5 residential solutions 43.4 45.4 industrial technologies 341.6 367.7 security technologies 160.4 166.1 total $ 1,777.5 $ 1,838.7 these backlog figures are based on orders received. while the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. we expect to ship substantially the entire backlog at december 31, 2009 during 2010. environmental matters we continue to be dedicated to an environmental program intended to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process as well as to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the environmental protection agency and similar state authorities. we have been also identified as a potentially responsible party (prp) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal superfund and state remediation sites. for all such sites, there are other prps and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal. in estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other prps who may be jointly and severally liable. the ability of other prps to participate has been taken into account, based generally on the parties financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future. 10 table of contents during 2009, we spent $10.8 million for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $93.3 million and $100.9 million, respectively. we believe that these expenditures and accrual levels will continue and may increase over time. given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain. for a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters and also note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos matters certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims has been filed against either ir-new jersey or trane and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third- party suppliers. see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters and also note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. employees as a result of the acquisition of trane in the second quarter of 2008, we increased our workforce by approximately 30,000 people. as of december 31, 2009, we employed approximately 57,000 people throughout the world. available information we file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the securities exchange act of 1934. the public may read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov. in addition, this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our internet website ( http://www.ingersollrand.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the board of directors of the company has also adopted and posted in the investor relations section of its website our corporate governance guidelines and charters for each of the board standing committees. certifications new york stock exchange annual chief executive officer certification the company chief executive officer submitted to the new york stock exchange the annual ceo certification as the company compliance with the new york stock exchange corporate governance listing standards required by section 303a.12 of the new york stock exchange listing standards. sarbanes-oxley act section 302 certification the certifications of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the company pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 have been filed as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. 11 table of contents item 1a . risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you invest in our publicly traded securities, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks relating to our businesses we are relying on an indemnification agreement with respect to any potential liability arising from a european commission investigation into possible infringement of european union competition law by trane and its subsidiaries. if we were unable to rely on the indemnification agreement for any reason, any potential liability arising from the european commission investigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with trane spinoff of the vehicle control systems business into a new publicly traded company called wabco holdings inc. (wabco) on july 31, 2007, trane entered into an indemnification and cooperation agreement (indemnification agreement) with, among others, american standard europe bvba (renamed wabco europe bvba) (wabco europe), which became a subsidiary of wabco following the spinoff. pursuant to the indemnification agreement, wabco europe has agreed to indemnify trane and its subsidiaries and their respective affiliates against any fines related to the european commission investigation. for a further discussion of european commission investigation, see legal proceedings. if the maximum fine is levied in 2010, the total liability could be as high as $1.1 billion based on trane last full fiscal year of worldwide revenue attributable to all of its product lines owned at the time the statement of objections was issued, subject to a probable reduction for leniency of at least 20 percent provided wabco europe, as the leniency applicant, fulfilled all conditions set forth in the european commission leniency notice. wabco has stated in its form 10-k for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2009 that its ability to satisfy its obligations under the indemnification agreement is contingent on its funding capability at the time of the fine, which could be affected by, among other things, its ability to access its then existing credit facilities, its ability to obtain alternative sources of financing, its ability to obtain some payment relief from the european commission or its ability to obtain a suspension of the payment obligation from the european court of first instance. if wabco europe were unable to satisfy its obligations under the indemnification agreement or if we were unable to rely on the indemnification agreement for any reason, any potential liability arising from the european commission investigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face continuing risks relating to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) on november 10, 2004, the securities and exchange commission (sec) issued an order directing that a number of public companies, including us, provide information relating to their participation in certain transactions under the united nations oil for food program. upon receipt of the order, we undertook a thorough review of our participation in the oil for food program and provided the sec with information responsive to its investigation of our participation in the program. on october 31, 2007, we announced that we had reached settlements with the sec and the department of justice (doj) relating to certain payments made by our foreign subsidiaries in 2000-2003 in connection with the oil for food program. pursuant to the settlements with the sec and doj, we have, among other things, (i) consented to the entry of a civil injunction in the sec action, (ii) entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement (dpa) with the doj, and (iii) agreed to implement improvements to our compliance program designed to enhance detection and prevention of violations of the fcpa and other applicable anti-corruption laws. if the doj determines, in its sole discretion, that we have committed a federal 12 table of contents crime or have otherwise breached the dpa during its three-year term, we may be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which the doj has knowledge, including, without limitation, violations of the fcpa in connection with the oil for food program. breaches of the settlements with sec and doj may also subject us to, among other things, further enforcement actions by the sec or the doj, securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our stock. for a further discussion of the settlements with the sec and doj, see legal proceedings. furthermore, we have reported to the doj and sec certain matters involving trane, including one relating to the oil for food program, and which raise potential issues under the fcpa and other applicable anti-corruption laws. with respect to these matters, we have conducted a thorough investigation which began in earnest promptly after our acquisition of trane in june 2008. previously, we had reported to the sec and doj potential fcpa issues relating to one of our businesses in china, and we have reported back to them and shared with them our audit report, which indicated no fcpa violations. with respect to that same business in china, we have discussed with the doj and sec another matter which raises potential fcpa issues. we have had preliminary discussions concerning the foregoing with the sec and doj, to be followed by further discussions about them and possibly other matters which raise potential fcpa concerns. these matters (and others which may arise or of which we become aware in the future) may be deemed to violate the fcpa and other applicable anti-corruption laws. such determinations could subject us to, among other things, further enforcement actions by the sec or the doj (if, for example, the doj deems us to have violated the dpa), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our stock. our global operations subject us to economic risks. our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the u.s. and internationally, including europe, china, brazil, venezuela, africa, india and turkey. these activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including the following: countries could change regulations or impose currency restrictions and other restraints; in some countries, there is a risk that the government may expropriate assets; some countries impose burdensome tariffs and quotas; national and international conflict, including terrorist acts, could significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations; and economic downturns, political instability and war or civil disturbances may disrupt production and distribution logistics or limit sales in individual markets. currency exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. see part ii item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. more than 35% of our 2009 net revenues were derived outside the u.s., and we expect sales to non-u.s. customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues. although we enter into currency exchange contracts to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. because we do not hedge against all of our currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to currency fluctuations. 13 table of contents furthermore, the reporting currency for our financial statements is the u.s. dollar. we have assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. to prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar versus other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. we are also a large buyer of steel and non-ferrous metals, as well as other commodities required for the manufacture of our products. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we may purchase commodity derivatives which reduce the volatility of the commodity prices for supplier contracts where fixed pricing is not available. significant shortages in the raw materials we use in our businesses and higher energy prices could increase our operating costs. we rely on suppliers to secure raw materials, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. a disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. nonetheless, the unavailability of some raw materials may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. additionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations for the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products to customers around the world. consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect certain segments of the company business and impact overall results of operations. demand for certain segments of the company products and services is influenced by weather conditions. for instance, trane sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. additionally, while there is demand for trane products and services throughout the year, a significant percentage of total sales are related to u.s. residential and commercial construction activity, which is generally higher in the second and third quarters of the year. therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of the company business and impact overall results of operations. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health. we estimate that our available cash and our cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund our operations for the foreseeable future. in making this estimate, we have not assumed the need to make any material payments in connection with any pending litigation or investigations. as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, including current or future asbestos-related litigation, may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. 14 table of contents such an outcome could have important consequences. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to exploit business opportunities; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness. if the distribution of wabco shares by trane on july 31, 2007 were to fail to qualify as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code (the code), then trane and trane shareholders who received wabco common stock in the distribution may be required to pay u.s. federal income taxes. on july 31, 2007, trane (then known as american standard companies inc.) completed the spinoff of its vehicle control systems business into a new publicly traded company named wabco. at the time, trane received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that the distribution qualified as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the code. in addition, trane received an opinion of skadden, arps, slate, meagher &amp; flom llp, tax counsel to trane, substantially to the effect that the distribution will qualify as tax-free to trane, wabco and trane shareholders under section 355 and related provisions of the code. the ruling and opinion were based on, among other things, certain assumptions as well as on the accuracy of certain factual representations and statements made by wabco and trane. in rendering its ruling, the irs also relied on certain covenants that trane and wabco entered into, including the adherence to certain restrictions on wabco and trane future actions. in connection with our acquisition of trane in june 2008, we received an opinion of simpson thacher &amp; bartlett llp, tax counsel to us, substantially to the effect that the distribution should continue to qualify as tax-free to trane, wabco and trane shareholders under section 355 and related provisions of the code. notwithstanding receipt by trane and us of the private letter ruling as well as the opinions of counsel, there can be no assurance that the irs will not later assert that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction. if the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, then trane would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of wabco common stock distributed to the trane shareholders over (ii) trane tax basis in such common stock. under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free reorganization and such failure was not the result of actions taken after the distribution by trane or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders, wabco would be responsible for all taxes imposed on trane as a result thereof. in addition, each trane shareholder who received wabco common stock in the distribution generally would be treated as having received a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of wabco common stock received (including any fractional share sold on behalf of the shareholder), which would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of the shareholder ratable share of trane current and accumulated earnings and profits at the time (as increased to reflect any current income including any gain recognized by trane on the taxable distribution). the balance, if any, of the distribution would be treated as a nontaxable return of capital to the extent of the trane shareholder tax basis in its trane stock, with any remaining amount being taxed as capital gain. if wabco was unable to satisfy its obligations under the tax sharing agreement or if trane was unable to rely on the tax sharing agreement for any reason, any potential liability arising from the distribution of wabco shares by trane could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 table of contents risks relating to our past reorganizations we effected a corporate reorganization in december 2001 to become a bermuda company (the bermuda reorganization ) and a subsequent corporate reorganization in july 2009 to become an irish public limited company (the ireland reorganization ). these reorganizations exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations will be realized. changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under u.s. or other tax laws or adverse determinations by taxing authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. tax authorities or any other tax authority. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the u.s. tax law that if enacted could increase our tax burden and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for instance, recent legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations. there are other recent u.s. tax legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. moreover, other legislative proposals could potentially affect us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our u.s. subsidiaries to our non-u.s. affiliates, which would adversely affect our effective tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation. while we are currently monitoring these proposals and are investigating all options, we could still be subject to increased u.s. taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals are enacted and/or certain tax treaties are amended. while our u.s. operations are subject to u.s. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-u.s. operations are generally not subject to u.s. tax other than withholding taxes. our conclusions are based on, among other things, our determination that we, and a significant portion of our foreign subsidiaries, are not currently controlled foreign corporation (cfc) within the meaning of the u.s. tax laws, although the irs or a court may not concur with our conclusions. a non-u.s. corporation, such as us, will constitute a cfc for u.s. federal income tax purposes if certain ownership criteria are met. if the irs or a court determined that we (or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc, then each of our u.s. shareholders who own (directly, indirectly, or constructively) 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our stock (or the stock of any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) on the last day of the applicable taxable year (a 10% u.s. voting shareholder ) would be required to include in gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our subpart f and other similar types of income (and the subpart f and other similar types of income of any of our subsidiaries determined to be a cfc) for the period during which we (and our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc. in addition, gain on the sale of our shares realized by such a shareholder may be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder proportionate share of our and our cfc subsidiaries undistributed earnings and profits accumulated during the shareholder holding period of the shares while we (or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) are a cfc. treatment of us or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries as a cfc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. on july 20, 2007, we received a notice from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years. the irs did not contest the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda. the most significant adjustments proposed by the irs involve treating the entire intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda as equity. as a result of this recharacterization, the irs disallowed the deduction of interest paid on the debt and imposed dividend withholding taxes on the payments denominated as interest. the irs also asserted an alternative argument to be applied if the intercompany debt is respected as debt. in that circumstance, the irs proposed to ignore the entities that hold the debt and to which the interest was paid, and impose 30% withholding tax on a portion of the interest 16 table of contents payments as if they were made directly to a company that was not eligible for reduced u.s. withholding tax under a u.s. income tax treaty. the irs asserted under this alternative theory that we owe additional taxes with respect to 2002 of approximately $84 million plus interest. if either of these positions were upheld in their entirety, we would be required to record additional charges. we strongly disagreed with the view of the irs, and filed a protest with the irs in the third quarter of 2007. on january 12, 2010, we received an amended notice from the irs eliminating its assertion that the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda should be treated as equity. however, the irs continues to assert the alternative position described above and proposes adjustments to our 2001 and 2002 tax filings. in addition, the irs provided notice on january 19, 2010, that it is assessing penalties of 30% on the asserted underpayment of tax described above. we have and intend to continue to vigorously contest these proposed adjustments. we, in consultation with our outside advisors, carefully considered the form and substance of our intercompany financing arrangements, including the actions necessary to qualify for the benefits of the applicable u.s. income tax treaties. we believe that these financing arrangements are in accordance with the laws of the relevant jurisdictions including the u.s., that the entities involved should be respected and that the interest payments qualify for the u.s. income tax treaty benefits claimed. although the outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the strength of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for this matter. as we move forward to resolve this matter with the irs, it is reasonably possible that the reserves established may be adjusted. however, we do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or financial position. at this time, the irs has not proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2002. however, if all or a portion of these adjustments proposed by the irs are ultimately sustained, it is likely to also affect subsequent tax years. for a further discussion of the irs audit, see legal proceedings and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements. as noted above, the irs did not contest the validity of the bermuda reorganization in the above-mentioned notices. we believe that neither we nor our consolidated subsidiary ir-new jersey will incur significant u.s. federal income or withholding taxes as a result of the transfer of the shares of our subsidiaries that occurred as part of the bermuda reorganization. however, we cannot give any assurances that the irs will agree with our determination. the inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our reorganizations could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. legislative and regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us. our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. tax authorities or any other tax authority. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the u.s. tax law that if enacted could increase our tax burden and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, the obama administration has recently announced various tax legislative proposals that, if adopted, could adversely impact the company. legislative action may be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could potentially override u.s. tax treaties upon which we rely, broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident or modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, each of which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if these or similar proposals that had the effect of disregarding the ireland reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between ireland and other jurisdictions (including the united states) or modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments were enacted, we could be subjected to increased taxation. in addition, any future amendments to current income tax treaties, including between ireland and other jurisdictions (including the united states) could subject us to increased taxation. 17 table of contents also, the u.s. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to u.s. companies that reincorporate outside of the u.s. or have reincorporated outside of the u.s. for instance, the homeland security act of 2002, as amended, includes a provision that prohibits inverted domestic corporations and their subsidiaries from entering into contracts with the department of homeland security. in addition, the state of california adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain non-u.s. chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts. more recently, the 2008, 2009 and 2010 consolidated appropriations acts prohibit any federal government agency from using funds appropriated by congress for fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010 to pay an inverted domestic corporation or any of its subsidiaries for work performed or products provided under certain federal contracts ( affected contracts ). although the amount of monies already paid to us or to be paid to us under the affected contracts is not material to the company, we cannot provide any assurance that the impact of future actions taken by the government in this area will not be materially adverse to our operations. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct business in the united states and in other countries but have changed their place of incorporation to another country. our effective tax rate may increase notwithstanding the ireland reorganization. while the ireland reorganization is not anticipated to have any material impact on our effective tax rate, there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate (which include the potential legislative actions described above), and our effective tax rate may increase and any such increase may be material. additionally, the tax laws of ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, as an irish tax resident company, we are required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. in the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the united states will not be subject to irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain irish dividend withholding tax forms. however, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of our shares. dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ingersoll rand. our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ingersoll rand. a future transfer of our shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. in certain circumstances, the transfer of shares in an irish incorporated company will be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired) payable by the buyer. although in the majority of transactions there will be no stamp duty because both the seller and buyer hold the shares beneficially, this additional risk for the buyer could adversely affect the price of our shares. although we currently intend to cause one of our affiliates to pay stamp duty in connection with share 18 table of contents transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially, our articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, we (i) may seek reimbursement from the transferor or transferee (at our discretion), (ii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends payable to the transferor or transferee (at our discretion), and (iii) will have a lien against our shares on which we have paid stamp duty and any dividends paid on such shares. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. in addition, irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. also, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. these authorizations must be renewed by the shareholders every five years and we cannot guarantee that these authorizations will always be approved. item 1b . unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties as of december 31, 2009, we owned or leased a total of approximately 20 million square feet of space worldwide. manufacturing and assembly operations are conducted in 94 plants across the world. we also maintain various warehouses, offices and repair centers throughout the world. the majority of our plant facilities are owned by us with the remainder under long-term lease arrangements. we believe that our plants have been well maintained, are generally in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. 19 table of contents the locations by segment of our major manufacturing facilities at december 31, 2009 were as follows: climate solutions americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific londrina, brazil kolin, czech republic wujiang, china curitiba, brazil cairo, egypt zhongshan, china monterrey, mexico charmes, france shenzen, china arecibo, puerto rico golbey, france suzhou, china fort smith, arkansas galway, ireland taicang, china chino, california barcelona, spain penang, malaysia pueblo, colorado pamplona, spain tauranga, new zealand lynn haven, florida peralta, spain louisville, georgia macon, georgia suwanee, georgia rushville, indiana lexington, kentucky minneapolis, minnesota bridgeton, missouri hastings, nebraska columbia, south carolina clarksville, tennessee waco, texas la crosse, wisconsin residential solutions americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific ensenada, mexico monterrey, mexico tecate, mexico tijuana, mexico fort smith, arkansas vidalia, georgia trenton, new jersey tyler, texas industrial technologies americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific montreal, canada unicov, czech republic changzhou, china augusta, georgia douai, france guilin, china campbellsville, kentucky wasquehal, france nanjing, china mocksville, north carolina oberhausen, germany shanghai, china southern pines, north carolina fogliano redipuglia, italy ahmedabad, india athens, pennsylvania vignate, italy ghaziabad, india west chester, pennsylvania pavlovo, russia seattle, washington 20 table of contents security technologies americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific ensenada, mexico feuquieres, france shanghai, china tecate, mexico renchen, germany auckland, new zealand tijuana, mexico faenza, italy san jose, california monsampolo, italy security, colorado calatayud, spain princeton, illinois duzce, turkey indianapolis, indiana cincinnati, ohio item 3 . legal proceedings in the normal course of business, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, including commercial and contract disputes, employment matters, product liability claims, environmental liabilities and intellectual property disputes. in our opinion, pending legal matters are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. oil for food program and foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) matters as previously reported, on november 10, 2004, the securities and exchange commission (sec) issued an order directing that a number of public companies, including the company, provide information relating to their participation in transactions under the united nations oil for food program. upon receipt of the order, the company undertook a thorough review of its participation in the oil for food program, provided the sec with information responsive to the order and provided additional information requested by the sec. during a march 27, 2007 meeting with the sec, at which a representative of the department of justice (doj) was also present, the company began discussions concerning the resolution of this matter with both the sec and doj. on october 31, 2007, the company announced it had reached settlements with the sec and doj relating to this matter. under the terms of the settlements, the company paid a total of $6.7 million in penalties, interest and disgorgement of profits. the company has consented to the entry of a civil injunction in the sec action and has entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement (dpa) with the doj. under both settlements, the company has implemented and will continue to implement improvements to its compliance program that are consistent with its longstanding policy against improper payments. in the settlement documents, the government noted that the company thoroughly cooperated with the investigation, that the company had conducted its own complete investigation of the conduct at issue, promptly and thoroughly reported its findings to them, and took prompt remedial measures. additionally, we have reported to the doj and sec certain matters involving trane, including one relating to the oil for food program, and which raise potential issues under the fcpa and other applicable anti-corruption laws. with respect to these matters, we have conducted a thorough investigation, which began in earnest promptly after our acquisition of trane in june 2008. previously, we had reported to the sec and doj potential fcpa issues relating to one of our businesses in china, and we have reported back to them and shared our audit report, which indicated no fcpa violations. with respect to that same business in china, we have discussed with the doj and sec another matter which raises potential fcpa issues. we have had preliminary discussions concerning the foregoing with the sec and doj, to be followed by further discussions about them and possibly other matters which raise potential fcpa concerns. these matters (and others which may arise or of which we become aware in the future) may be deemed to violate the fcpa and other applicable anti-corruption laws. such determinations could subject us to, among other things, further enforcement actions by the sec or the doj (if, for example, the doj deems us to have violated the dpa), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our stock. 21 table of contents the european commission investigation in november 2004, trane was contacted by the european commission as part of a multi-company investigation into possible infringement of european union competition law relating to the distribution of bathroom fixtures and fittings in certain european countries. on march 28, 2007, trane, along with a number of other companies, received a statement of objections from the european commission. the statement of objections, an administrative complaint, alleges infringements of european union competition rules by numerous bathroom fixture and fittings companies, including trane and certain of its former european subsidiaries engaged in the bath and kitchen business. these former subsidiaries were transferred (i) to wabco on july 31, 2007 as part of a legal reorganization in connection with the spinoff of trane vehicle control systems business and (ii) to bain capital partners llc on october 31, 2007 in connection with the sale of trane bath &amp; kitchen business. trane and certain of its former european subsidiaries will be jointly and severally liable for any fines that result from the investigation. however, pursuant to an indemnification and cooperation agreement among trane and certain other parties (indemnification agreement), american standard europe bvba (renamed wabco europe bvba) (wabco europe), which is a subsidiary of wabco following the reorganization, will be responsible for, and will indemnify trane and its subsidiaries (including certain subsidiaries formerly engaged in the bath and kitchen business) and their respective affiliates against, any fines related to this investigation. trane and the charged subsidiaries responded to the european commission on august 1, 2007 and july 31, 2007, respectively. a hearing with the european commission regarding the response to the statement of objections was conducted from november 12-14, 2007, in brussels. wabco europe and other former trane subsidiaries participated in the hearing. trane, however, did not participate in the hearing. in 2006, the european commission adopted new fining guidelines (2006 guidelines) and stated its intention to apply these guidelines in all cases in which a statement of objections is issued after september 2006. in applying the 2006 guidelines, the commission retains considerable discretion in calculating the fine although the european union regulations provide for a cap on the maximum fine equal to ten percent of trane worldwide revenue attributable to all of its products for the fiscal year prior to the year in which the fine is imposed. if the maximum fine is levied in 2010, the total liability could be as high as $1.1 billion based on trane last full fiscal year of worldwide revenue attributable to all of its businesses owned at the time the statement of objections was issued, subject to a probable reduction for leniency of at least 20 percent provided wabco europe, as the leniency applicant, fulfilled all conditions set forth in the european commission leniency notice. wabco has stated in its form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2009, that its ability to satisfy its obligations under the indemnification agreement is contingent on its funding capability at the time of the fine, which could be affected by, among other things, its ability to access its then existing credit facilities, its ability to obtain alternative sources of financing, its ability to obtain some payment relief from the european commission or its ability to obtain a suspension of the payment obligation from the european court of first instance. tax related matters on july 20, 2007, we received a notice from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years. the irs did not contest the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda. the most significant adjustments proposed by the irs involve treating the entire intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda as equity. as a result of this recharacterization, the irs disallowed the deduction of interest paid on the debt and imposed dividend withholding taxes on the payments denominated as interest. the irs also asserted an alternative argument to be applied if the intercompany debt is respected as debt. in that circumstance, the irs proposed to ignore the entities that hold the debt and to which the interest was paid, and impose 30% withholding tax on a portion of the interest payments as if they were made directly to a company that was not eligible for reduced u.s. withholding tax under a u.s. income tax treaty. the irs asserted under this alternative theory that we owe additional taxes with respect to 2002 of approximately $84 million plus interest. if either of these positions were upheld in their entirety, we would be required to record additional charges. we strongly disagreed with the view of the irs, and filed a protest with the irs in the third quarter of 2007. 22 table of contents on january 12, 2010, we received an amended notice from the irs eliminating its assertion that the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda should be treated as equity. however, the irs continues to assert the alternative position described above and proposes adjustments to our 2001 and 2002 tax filings. in addition, the irs provided notice on january 19, 2010, that it is assessing penalties of 30% on the asserted underpayment of tax described above. we have and intend to continue to vigorously contest these proposed adjustments. we, in consultation with our outside advisors, carefully considered the form and substance of our intercompany financing arrangements, including the actions necessary to qualify for the benefits of the applicable u.s. income tax treaties. we believe that these financing arrangements are in accordance with the laws of the relevant jurisdictions including the u.s., that the entities involved should be respected and that the interest payments qualify for the u.s. income tax treaty benefits claimed. although the outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the strength of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for this matter. as we move forward to resolve this matter with the irs, it is reasonably possible that the reserves established may be adjusted. however, we do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or financial position. at this time, the irs has not proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2002. however, if all or a portion of these adjustments proposed by the irs are ultimately sustained, it is likely to also affect subsequent tax years. for a further discussion of tax matters, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos related matters certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims has been filed against either ingersoll rand company (ir-new jersey) or trane and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters and also note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. 23 table of contents item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders no matters were submitted to a vote of the company security holders during the last quarter of its fiscal year ended december 31, 2009. executive officers of the registrant pursuant to the general instruction g(3) of form 10-k, the following list of executive officers of the company as of february 26, 2010 is included as an unnumbered item in part i of this report in lieu of being included in the company proxy statement for its 2010 annual general meeting of shareholders. name and age date of service as an executive officer principal occupation and other information for past five years michael w. lamach (46) 2/16/2004 chief executive officer and president (since february 2010); president and chief operating officer (2009-2010); senior vice president and president, trane commercial (2008-2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2004-2008) steven r. shawley (57) 8/1/2005 senior vice president and chief financial officer (since june 2008); senior vice president and president, climate control technologies (2005-2008); president, climate control americas (2003-2005) marcia j. avedon (48) 2/7/2007 senior vice president, human resources and communication (since february 2007); merck &amp; co., inc., senior vice president, human resources (2003-2006) james r. bolch (52) 10/16/2005 senior vice president and president, industrial technologies (since october 2005); schindler elevator corporation, executive vice president, service business (2004-2005) john w. conover iv (55) 7/1/2009 senior vice president and president, security technologies (since july 2009); president, trane commercial systems, americas (2005-2009) william b. gauld (56) 10/2/2006 senior vice president, enterprise services (since october 2006); w group, principal (2005-2006); pearson, plc, chief information officer (2001-2005) steven b. hochhauser (48) 6/16/2008 senior vice president and president, residential solutions (since october 2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2008-2009); johns manville, chairman, president and chief executive officer (2004-2007) and chief operating officer (2002-2004) patricia nachtigal (63) 11/2/1988 director (since january 1, 2002); senior vice president and general counsel (since november 1988) didier teirlinck (53) 6/4/2008 senior vice president and president, climate solutions (since october 2009); president, climate control technologies (since june 2008); president, climate control europe (2005-2008); president, volvo equipment (2000-2005) todd d. wyman (42) 11/16/2009 senior vice president, global operations and integrated supply chain: (since november 2009); ge transportation, vice president, global supply chain (2007-2009); ge transportation, general manager, global supply chain (2003-2007) richard j. weller (53) 9/8/2008 vice president and controller (since september 2008); vice president, finance (june-september 2008); vice president, finance, security technologies sector (2005-2008); textron inc., vice president, finance, shared services (2002-2005) no family relationship exists between any of the above-listed executive officers of the company. all officers are elected to hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. 24 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities information regarding the principal market for our ordinary shares and related shareholder matters is as follows: our ordinary shares are traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir. as of february 18, 2010, the approximate number of record holders of ordinary shares was 5,521. the high and low sales price per share and the dividend paid per share for the following periods were as follows: common shares 2009 high low dividend first quarter $ 20.20 $ 11.46 $ 0.18 second quarter 24.02 13.65 0.18 third quarter 32.95 19.48 0.07 fourth quarter 37.60 28.77 0.07 2008 high low dividend first quarter $ 46.57 $ 34.46 $ 0.18 second quarter 46.84 36.54 0.18 third quarter 41.14 29.18 0.18 fourth quarter 30.60 11.75 0.18 the bank of new york mellon (bny mellon shareowner services, p.o. box 358015, new york, ny 15252-8015, (800) 507-9357) is our transfer agent, registrar and dividend reinvestment agent. future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the irish companies act. under the irish companies act, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits of ir-ireland. in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of ir-ireland are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of ir-ireland called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce ir-ireland net assets below such aggregate. information regarding equity compensation plans required to be disclosed pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from our definite proxy statement for the annual general meeting of shareholders. we treat ordinary shares of our parent owned by a subsidiary as treasury stock. these shares are recorded at cost and included in the shareholders equity section of the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2007, class a common shares of ir-limited owned by the company amounted to 97.4 million. as a result of the acquisition of trane in june 2008, the company issued 45.4 million ir-limited class a common shares to fund the equity portion of the consideration. in june 2009, ir-limited cancelled the remaining 52.0 million shares in anticipation of the ireland reorganization that became effective on july 1, 2009. 25 table of contents total share repurchases for the year ended december 31, 2009 are as follows: period total number of shares purchased (000 s) average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of the publicly announced program (000 s) approximate dollar value of shares still available to be purchased under the program ($000 s) 01/01/2009 - 03/31/2009 - - - $ 1,998,120 04/01/2009 - 06/30/2009 - - - 1,998,120 07/01/2009 - 09/30/2009 - - - 1,998,120 10/01/2009 - 12/31/2009 - - - 1,998,120 total - - performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our ordinary shares with the cumulative total return on (i) the standard &amp; poor 500 stock index and (ii) the standard &amp; poor 500 industrial index for the five years ended december 31, 2009. the graph assumes an investment of $100 in our ordinary shares, the standard &amp; poor 500 stock index and the standard &amp; poor 500 industrial index on december 31, 2004 and assumes the reinvestment of dividends. 26 table of contents item 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts: at and for the years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 net revenues $ 13,195.3 $ 13,227.4 $ 8,763.1 $ 8,033.7 $ 7,263.7 net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations 462.9 (2,567.4 ) 733.1 765.0 731.8 discontinued operations (11.6 ) (57.4 ) 3,233.6 267.5 322.4 total assets 19,991.0 20,924.5 14,376.2 12,145.9 11,756.4 total debt 4,096.6 5,124.1 1,453.7 1,984.6 2,117.0 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders equity 7,101.8 6,661.4 7,907.0 5,404.8 5,761.9 earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic: continuing operations $ 1.45 $ (8.54 ) $ 2.52 $ 2.39 $ 2.17 discontinued operations (0.04 ) (0.19 ) 11.12 0.84 0.95 diluted: continuing operations $ 1.41 $ (8.54 ) $ 2.48 $ 2.37 $ 2.14 discontinued operations (0.04 ) (0.19 ) 10.95 0.83 0.95 dividends per common share $ 0.50 $ 0.72 $ 0.72 $ 0.68 $ 0.57 1. 2006 2005 amounts have been restated to reflect compact equipment and the road development business unit as discontinued operations. 2. 2008 amounts include the results of trane since the acquisition date (june 5, 2008 through december 31, 2008). 3. 2008 earnings (loss) from continuing operations include an after-tax, non-cash asset impairment charge of $3.4 billion that was recognized in the fourth quarter. 27 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this annual report. overview organization ingersoll-rand plc (ir-ireland), an irish public limited company, and its consolidated subsidiaries (we, our, the company) is a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables, secure homes and commercial properties, and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. our business segments consist of climate solutions, residential solutions, industrial technologies and security technologies, each with strong brands and leading positions within their respective markets. we generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as club car &reg; , hussmann &reg; , ingersoll-rand &reg; , schlage &reg; , thermo king &reg; and trane &reg; . we are dedicated to inspiring progress for our customers, shareholders, employees and communities by achieving: dramatic growth , by focusing on innovative solutions for our customers; operational excellence , by pursuing continuous improvement in all of our operations; and dual citizenship , by bringing together the talents of all ingersoll rand people to leverage the capabilities of our global enterprise. to achieve these goals and to become a more diversified company with strong growth prospects, we transformed our enterprise portfolio by divesting cyclical, low-growth and asset-intensive businesses. in addition, our acquisition strategy has helped deliver more consistent revenue and earnings performance across all phases of the economic cycle. aside from our portfolio transformation, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream, which includes revenues from parts, service, used equipment and rentals. we also intend to continuously improve the efficiencies, capabilities, products and services of our high-potential businesses. on july 1, 2009, ingersoll-rand company limited (ir-limited), a bermuda company, completed a reorganization to change the jurisdiction of incorporation of the parent company of ingersoll rand from bermuda to ireland. as a result, ir-ireland replaced ir-limited as the ultimate parent company effective july 1, 2009. all references related to the company prior to july 1, 2009 relate to ir-limited. ireland reorganization on march 5, 2009, our board of directors approved a reorganization of the company that would change the jurisdiction of incorporation of our parent company from bermuda to ireland (the ireland reorganization). the first step in the ireland reorganization was the establishment of ir-limited tax residency in ireland, which occurred in march 2009. subsequently, ir-ireland replaced ir-limited as the ultimate parent company pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under bermuda law (the scheme of arrangement). major milestones to complete the scheme of arrangement were as follows: on april 1, 2009, ir-limited formed ir-ireland as a direct subsidiary. 28 table of contents on april 20, 2009, ir-limited petitioned the supreme court of bermuda to order the calling of a meeting of the class a common shareholders of ir-limited to approve the scheme of arrangement. on april 23, 2009, the supreme court of bermuda ordered ir-limited to seek the approval of its class a common shareholders on the scheme of arrangement. on june 3, 2009, ir-limited received the requisite approval from its class a common shareholders. on june 11, 2009, the supreme court of bermuda issued an order (the sanction order) approving the scheme of arrangement. on june 30, 2009, ir-limited filed the sanction order with the bermuda registrar of companies and, at 12:01 a.m. on july 1, 2009 (the transaction time) the following steps occurred simultaneously: all fractional shares of ir-limited held of record were cancelled and ir-limited paid to each holder of fractional shares that were cancelled an amount based on the average of the high and low trading prices of the ir-limited class a common shares on the new york stock exchange on june 29, 2009. all previously outstanding whole class a common shares of ir-limited were cancelled. ir-limited issued to ir-ireland 319,166,220 class a common shares. ir-ireland issued 319,166,220 ordinary shares to holders of whole ir-limited class a common shares that were cancelled as a part of the scheme of arrangement. all previously outstanding ordinary shares of ir-ireland held by ir-limited and its nominees were acquired by ir-ireland and cancelled for no consideration. as a result of the ireland reorganization, ir-limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ir-ireland and the class a common shareholders of ir-limited became ordinary shareholders of ir-ireland. the ireland reorganization did not have a material impact on our financial results. ingersoll-rand plc will still continue to be subject to united states securities and exchange commission reporting requirements and prepare financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. shares of ingersoll-rand plc will continue to trade on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir , the same symbol under which the ingersoll-rand company limited class a common shares previously traded. at the transaction time, ir-limited completed the transfer of all the outstanding shares of ingersoll-rand global holding company limited (ir-global) to ingersoll-rand international holding limited (ir-international), another wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of ir-limited incorporated in bermuda, whereupon ir-international assumed the obligations of ir-limited as an issuer or guarantor, as the case may be, under the indentures governing the company outstanding notes, medium-term notes and debentures. ir-ireland and ir-limited also fully and unconditionally guarantee the payment obligations of ir-international, ir-global and ingersoll-rand company, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of ir-limited incorporated in new jersey (ir-new jersey), as the case may be, as the issuers of debt securities under these indentures. neither ir-ireland nor ir-limited has issued or intends to issue guarantees in respect of any indebtedness incurred by trane. in addition, any securities issued by the company that were convertible, exchangeable or exercisable into class a common shares of ir-limited became convertible, exchangeable or exercisable, as the case may be, into the ordinary shares of ir-ireland. on july 1, 2009, ir-global amended and restated its commercial paper program (the commercial paper program) pursuant to which ir-global may issue, on a private placement basis, unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $2.25 billion. under the commercial paper program, ir-global may issue notes from time to time, and the proceeds of the financing will be used for general corporate purposes. each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international has provided an irrevocable and 29 table of contents unconditional guarantee for the notes issued under the commercial paper program. pursuant to the terms of our credit facility entered into on august 12, 2005 and our credit facility entered into on june 27, 2008 (the credit facilities), at the transaction time, ir-ireland and ir-international became guarantors to such credit facilities. in connection therewith, ir-ireland and ir-international entered into addendums on july 1, 2009 to become parties to the credit facilities. in connection with the transaction, effective as of the transaction time, ir-ireland assumed the existing obligations of ir-limited under the equity incentive plans and other similar employee award plans of ingersoll rand (collectively, the plans), including all awards issued thereunder. furthermore, the plans have been amended to provide (1) that ordinary shares of ir-ireland will be issued, held available or used to measure benefits as appropriate under the plans, in lieu of shares of ir-limited, including upon exercise of any options or share appreciation rights or upon the vesting of restricted stock units or performance units issued under those plans; and (2) for the appropriate substitution of ir-ireland for ir-limited in those plans. trends and economic events we are a global corporation with worldwide operations. as a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors, as well as political factors, wherever we operate or do business. our geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of our product sales and services, has helped limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. since the onset of the economic downturn in 2008, we have seen weaker demand for many of our products and services. although the challenging and difficult end market environments in which we operate are showing signs of stabilization, albeit at lower levels, we are still operating in a depressed economic climate. despite the challenging economic environment, we continue to execute our business strategy. the divestiture of both compact equipment and the road development business unit in 2007, in addition to the acquisition of trane in 2008, have enabled us to become more balanced across the products we offer. in addition, our current enterprise-wide restructuring actions initiated in the fourth quarter of 2008 are designed to streamline the footprint of our manufacturing facilities and reduce our general and administrative cost base. given the broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the company. we monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. in addition, our order rates are indicative of future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. in those industry segments where we are a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. for 2010, we expect current market conditions to continue to impact our financial results. u.s. and european non-residential construction markets are expected to remain weak; however, some of our end markets are showing signs of stabilization. despite the current market environment, we have a solid foundation of global brands and leading market shares in all of our major product lines. our growing geographic and industry diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service, parts and replacement revenue streams. in addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which will fuel our future growth. acquisition of trane at the close of business on june 5, 2008 (the acquisition date), we completed the acquisition of 100% of the outstanding common shares of trane. trane, previously named american standard companies inc., provides systems and services that enhance the quality and comfort of the air in homes and buildings around the world. 30 table of contents trane systems and services have leading positions in premium commercial, residential, institutional and industrial markets, a reputation for reliability, high quality and product innovation and a powerful distribution network. trane 2007 annual revenues were $7.5 billion. we paid a combination of (i) 0.23 of an ir-limited class a common share and (ii) $36.50 in cash, without interest, for each outstanding share of trane common stock. the total cost of the acquisition was approximately $9.6 billion, including change in control payments and direct costs of the transaction. we financed the cash portion of the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand, commercial paper and a 364-day senior unsecured bridge loan facility. the components of the purchase price were as follows: in billions cash consideration $ 7.3 stock consideration (issuance of 45.4 million ir-limited class a common shares) 2.0 estimated fair value of trane stock options converted to 7.4 million ir-limited stock options 0.2 transaction costs 0.1 total $ 9.6 as a result of the acquisition, the results of the operations of trane have been included in the statement of financial position at december 31, 2009 and 2008 and the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the full year of 2009 and since the acquisition date in 2008. for further details on the acquisition of trane, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. significant events in 2009 in the fourth quarter of 2009, we realigned our external reporting structure to more closely reflect our corporate and business strategies and to promote additional productivity and growth. our segments are now as follows: climate solutions, residential solutions, industrial technologies and security technologies. as part of the change, we eliminated the air conditioning systems and services segment which represented the acquired trane business and created two new reportable segments, the climate solutions segment and the residential solutions segment. see note 24 in the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of the segment realignment. during 2009, we completed a comprehensive financing program that significantly enhanced our liquidity and debt profile. actions taken include the issuance of $1.0 billion in long-term debt (senior notes and exchangeable senior notes) in april 2009 and the replacement of our trane accounts receivable purchase program in march 2009 with a new accounts receivable purchase program that encompassed originators from all four of our business segments. the proceeds from our debt issuance were used to repay the $950.0 million outstanding under our senior unsecured bridge loan facility. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we initiated enterprise-wide restructuring actions in order to streamline both our manufacturing footprint and our general and administrative cost base. we have incurred approximately $182.1 million of costs associated with our restructuring programs since the fourth quarter of 2008, $111.4 million of which occurred during 2009. these combined restructuring actions generated approximately $194 million of annual pretax savings for 2009. significant events in 2008 as discussed in acquisition of trane above, on june 5, 2008, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of trane for approximately $9.6 billion. 31 table of contents in august 2008, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the securities and exchange commission (sec) for an indeterminate amount of securities for future issuance and issued $1.6 billion of long-term debt pursuant to the shelf registration statement. this issuance consisted of $250 million senior floating rate notes due in 2010, $600 million 6.000% senior notes due in 2013 and $750 million 6.875% senior notes due in 2018. these notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ir-limited, which directly owns 100% of the subsidiary issuer, ir global holding company limited. the net proceeds from the offering were used to partially reduce the amount outstanding under the senior unsecured bridge loan facility, which had a balance of $754 million at december 31, 2008. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we tested goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. as a result of decreased global equity valuations, the tightening of industrial and retail end markets and a resulting decline in our 2009 projected financial performance, we incurred a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $3,710.0 million, $3,385.0 million after-tax. significant events in 2007 on november 30, 2007, we completed the sale of our bobcat, utility equipment and attachments business units (collectively, compact equipment) to doosan infracore for cash proceeds of approximately $4.9 billion, subject to post-closing purchase price adjustments. compact equipment manufactured and sold compact equipment including skid-steer loaders, compact track loaders, mini-excavators and telescopic tool handlers; portable air compressors, generators, light towers; general-purpose light construction equipment; and attachments. we are currently in the process of resolving the final purchase price adjustments with doosan infracore. on april 30, 2007, we completed the sale of our road development business unit to ab volvo (publ) for cash proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion. the road development business unit manufactured and sold asphalt paving equipment, compaction equipment, milling machines and construction-related material handling equipment. during 2007, we repurchased 39.7 million common shares at a cost $1,999.9 million under our existing $4 billion share repurchase program. this repurchase program was originally authorized by the board of directors in december 2006 to repurchase up to $2 billion and subsequently expanded to $4 billion in may 2007. 32 table of contents results of operations dollar amounts in millions, except per share data 2009 % of revenues 2008 % of revenues 2007 % of revenues net revenues $ 13,195.3 $ 13,227.4 $ 8,763.1 cost of goods sold (9,645.1 ) 73.1% (9,748.1 ) 73.7% (6,272.0 ) 71.6% selling and administrative expenses (2,708.6 ) 20.5% (2,343.1 ) 17.7% (1,433.3 ) 16.3% asset impairment - (3,710.0 ) - operating income (loss) 841.6 6.4% (2,573.8 ) -19.5% 1,057.8 12.1% interest expense (302.2 ) (245.4 ) (136.2 ) other, net 19.7 63.2 30.2 earnings (loss) before income taxes 559.1 (2,756.0 ) 951.8 (provision) benefit for income taxes (71.3 ) 208.6 (204.4 ) earnings (loss) from continuing operations 487.8 (2,547.4 ) 747.4 discontinued operations, net of tax (11.6 ) (57.4 ) 3,242.6 net earnings (loss) 476.2 (2,604.8 ) 3,990.0 less: net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (24.9 ) (20.0 ) (23.3 ) net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc $ 451.3 $ (2,624.8 ) $ 3,966.7 diluted net earnings (loss) per ordinary share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations $ 1.41 $ (8.54 ) $ 2.48 discontinued operations (0.04 ) (0.19 ) 10.95 net earnings (loss) $ 1.37 $ (8.73 ) $ 13.43 net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 decreased by 0.2%, or $32.1 million, compared with the same period of 2008, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix -15.5 % pricing 0.8 % currency exchange rates -1.4 % acquisitions 15.9 % total -0.2 % the acquisition of trane increased net revenues by $2,096.3 million compared with the same period of 2008. the increase, which represented 15.9% of the year-over-year change in revenues, was a consequence of 2008 reported results only reflecting activity since the acquisition date. excluding the results of trane, revenues decreased by 16.1%, or $2,128.4 million, which resulted from lower volumes and product mix (16%) and an unfavorable currency impact (1%). these reductions were partially offset by improved pricing (1%). the trane commercial and residential hvac businesses also experienced substantial volume declines during the year. 33 table of contents net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2008 increased by 50.9%, or $4,464.3 million, compared with the same period of 2007, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix -4.3 % pricing 2.6 % currency exchange rates 1.7 % acquisitions 50.9 % total 50.9 % the acquisition of trane on june 5, 2008 increased revenues by $4,401.3 million compared to the same period in 2007. the increase, which represented 50.2% of the year-over-year change in revenues, was a consequence of 2008 reported results including activity since the acquisition date. excluding the results of trane, revenues increased by 0.7%, or $63.0 million. softening overall demand in many major end-markets was the primary driver of the volume reduction. however, we continued to make progress in increasing recurring revenues, which improved by 6% over prior year and accounted for 19% of net revenues in 2008. cost of goods sold for the year ended december 31, 2009, cost of goods sold decreased by $103.0 million, or 1.1% compared to the same period in 2008, which included the results of trane since the acquisition date. trane increased cost of goods sold by $1,421.8 million, which contributed 14.6% to the year-over-year change. excluding the results of trane, cost of goods sold decreased by $1,524.8 million, or 15.7% as a result of increased productivity actions and expense reduction across the businesses. these actions helped to mitigate the impact of lower volumes due to the continued global weakness in our major end markets. as a result, cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue decreased to 73.1% from 73.7%. in addition, cost of goods sold included $58.3 million of restructuring costs compared to restructuring and integration costs of $56.7 million in 2008. for the year ended december 31, 2008, cost of goods sold increased by $3,476.1 million compared to the same period in 2007. the increase was primarily related to the acquisition of trane, which contributed $3,330.8 million to the year-over-year increase. as a result, cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue increased to 73.7% compared with 71.6% for the same period of 2007. in addition, cost of goods sold included $56.7 million of restructuring and integration costs compared to restructuring costs of $24.8 million in 2007. higher material costs and unfavorable business and product mix more than offset price increases. in addition, decreased leverage due to lower volumes contributed to the year-over-year increase. selling and administrative expenses for the year ended december 31, 2009, selling and administrative expense increased by $365.5 million, or 15.6% compared to the same period in 2008, which included the results of trane since the acquisition date. trane increased selling and administrative expenses by $558.5 million, which contributed 23.8% to the year-over-year change. excluding the results of trane, selling and administrative expense decreased by $193.0 million, or 8.2% as a result of increased productivity actions and expense reduction across the businesses. these actions partially offset the dramatic decline in volume experienced during 2009. as a result, selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue increased to 20.5% compared with 17.7% for the same period of 2008. in addition, selling and administrative expense included $53.1 million of restructuring costs compared to $34.2 million of restructuring and integration costs in 2008. for the year ended december 31, 2008, selling and administrative expense increased by $909.8 million compared to the same period in 2007. the increase was primarily related to the acquisition of trane, which contributed $877.3 million to the year-over-year-increase. as a result, selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue increased to 17.7% compared with 16.3% for the same period of 2007. in addition, selling and administrative expense included $34.2 million of restructuring and integration costs compared to $3.9 million of restructuring costs in 2007. decreased leverage due to lower volumes more than offset expense reduction and price increases. 34 table of contents asset impairment during the fourth quarter of 2008, we tested goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. as a result of decreased global equity valuations, the tightening of industrial and retail end markets and a resulting decline in our 2009 projected financial performance, we incurred a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $3,710.0 million, $3,385.0 million after-tax. the following table summarizes the impairment charges that were taken by sector during 2008: in millions goodwill intangible assets marketable securities total climate solutions $ 840.0 $ 400.0 $ - $ 1,240.0 residential solutions 1,656.0 454.0 - 2,110.0 security technologies 344.0 6.0 10.0 360.0 total $ 2,840.0 $ 860.0 $ 10.0 $ 3,710.0 for a further discussion of impairment related matters, see goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets under critical accounting policies and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. operating margin operating margin for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased to 6.4% from a negative 19.5% for the same period in 2008, which included the results of trane since the acquisition date. operating margin for the year ended december 31, 2008 was impacted by a non-cash charge of $3,710.0 million related to an asset impairment recognized in the fourth quarter. excluding the asset impairment, which had a 28.1 point impact on 2008 operating margins, year-over-year operating margins decreased by 2.2 points. the primary drivers of the decrease related to lower volumes, an unfavorable currency impact and lower margins in the acquired trane businesses. results were further impacted by $111.4 million of restructuring costs which impacted operating margins in 2009 by 0.8 points. productivity actions, expense reduction and improved pricing helped to mitigate the impact of the continued global weakness in our major end markets. operating margin decreased from 12.1% for the year ended december 31, 2007 to a negative 19.5% for the same period in 2008, which included the results of trane since the acquisition date. operating margin for the year ended december 31, 2008 was impacted by a non-cash charge of $3,710.0 million related to an asset impairment recognized in the fourth quarter. excluding the asset impairment, which had a 28.1 point impact on 2008 operating margins, year-over-year operating margins decreased by 3.5 points. the primary drivers of the decrease related to lower volumes, higher commodity costs and an unfavorable business and product mix. results were further impacted by restructuring and integration costs associated with the acquisition of trane in june 2008. productivity actions, expense reduction and improved pricing helped to mitigate the impact of the global weakness in our major end markets. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased $56.8 million compared with the same period of 2008. the increase is primarily related to higher average debt levels as a result of the funding of the acquisition of trane in june 2008. interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2008 increased $109.2 million compared with the same period of 2007. the increase is primarily related to significantly higher debt levels used to help fund the acquisition of trane in june 2008. 35 table of contents other, net the year-over-year changes in other, net primarily resulted from the following: in millions 2009 2008 2007 interest income $ 13.3 $ 95.6 $ 36.2 currency gain (loss) (36.1 ) (41.9 ) (2.8 ) earnings from equity investments 8.1 3.4 1.0 other 34.4 6.1 (4.2 ) other, net $ 19.7 $ 63.2 $ 30.2 for the year ended december 31, 2009, other, net decreased by $43.5 million compared with the same period of 2008. the decrease was primarily related to lower interest income as a result of lower average cash balances during the year. the decrease was partially offset by lower exchange losses in 2009. in addition, we recorded income of approximately $25 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily related to a favorable settlement with an insurance carrier associated with a portion of our asbestos obligation. the settlement is included in other in the table above. included in currency exchange gains (losses) above is a $24 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009, associated with the recent devaluation in the venezuelan bolivar. at december 31, 2009, we remeasured our foreign currency receivables and payables associated with the venezuelan bolivar at the parallel rate of 6.0 bolivars for each u.s. dollar, based on our inability to settle certain transactions through the official government channels in an expeditious manner. previously, we remeasured all foreign currency transactions at the official rate of 2.15 bolivars for each u.s. dollar. in addition, effective january 1, 2010, venezuela has been designated highly inflationary, as the blended consumer price index/national consumer price index reached cumulative three-year inflation in excess of 100% during the fourth quarter of 2009. as such, all future foreign currency fluctuations will be recorded in income. for the year ended december 31, 2008, other, net increased by $33.0 million compared with the same period of 2007. the increase was a result of greater interest income generated by higher average cash balances prior to the acquisition of trane in june 2008. the increase was partially offset by currency losses due to significant volatility in currency exchange rates, predominately in the fourth quarter. provision for income taxes for the year ended december 31, 2009, the effective tax rate was 12.8% compared to 7.5% in 2008. the 2009 tax rate was below the u.s. statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which, in aggregate, have a lower effective rate. the 5.3 point increase in the effective rate is primarily the result of an increase in valuation allowances as well as changes in earnings mix offset by a reduction in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. for the year ended december 31, 2008, the effective tax rate was 7.5%. the tax rate was substantially below the u.s. statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to the large impairment charge recognized in the fourth quarter, as well as earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which, in aggregate, have a lower effective rate. excluding the impairment charge, the adjusted effective rate would have been 12.4%, compared with an effective rate of 21.8% in 2007. the 9.4 point reduction in the effective rate is primarily the result of lower earnings in high tax jurisdiction during 2008. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of tax matters. review of business segments in the fourth quarter of 2009, we realigned our external reporting structure to more closely reflect our corporate and business strategies and to promote additional productivity and growth. our segments are now as follows: climate solutions, residential solutions, industrial technologies and security technologies. as part of the 36 table of contents change, we eliminated the air conditioning systems and services segment which represented the acquired trane business and created two new reportable segments, the climate solutions segment and the residential solutions segment. see note 24 in the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of the segment realignment. the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each segment included in continuing operations. climate solutions our climate solutions segment delivers energy-efficient refrigeration and heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) throughout the world. encompassing the transport and stationary refrigeration markets as well as the commercial hvac markets, this segment offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions to manage controlled temperature environments. this segment includes the market leading brands of hussmann, thermo king and trane. in the fourth quarter of 2009, we realigned our external reporting structure to eliminate the air conditioning systems and services segment, which represented the trane commercial and residential businesses acquired at the close of business on june 5, 2008 (the acquisition date). as a result, the trane commercial hvac business is now incorporated within the newly created climate solutions segment, along with the transport and stationary refrigeration business. reported results include revenue and operating income from the trane commercial hvac business for the six months and 25 days since the acquisition date in 2008 and for the full year in 2009. dollar amounts in millions 2009 % change 2008 % change 2007 net revenues $ 7,293.7 8.0% $ 6,750.6 100.2% $ 3,372.4 operating income (loss) 406.9 n/a (771.8 ) * n/a 382.6 operating margin 5.6% -11.4% 11.3% * amount includes a non-cash impairment charge of $1,240.0 million. 2009 vs 2008 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by 8.0% or $543.1 million, compared with the same period of 2008, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix -13.9 % pricing 0.5 % currency exchange rates -1.1 % acquisition of the trane commercial hvac business 22.5 % total 8.0 % net revenues in the trane commercial hvac business increased $1,522.2 million compared with the same period of 2008. the increase, which represented 22.5% of the segment year-over-year increase, was a consequence of 2008 reported results only reflecting activity since the acquisition date. net revenues in the transport and stationary refrigeration business decreased 29.2%, or $979.1 million, compared with the same period of 2008. the decrease, which had a 14.5% impact on the segment year-over-year results, was primarily due to lower volumes and product mix (14%) and an unfavorable currency impact (1%). these reductions were slightly offset by improved pricing (1%). trane commercial hvac revenues were impacted by a continued decline in activity in non-residential construction markets in all major geographic areas, except asia. both equipment and service revenue, as well as parts, services and solutions were impacted by the decrease in end market activity. net revenues in our transport 37 table of contents and stationary refrigeration businesses decreased primarily as a result of the continued decline in the heavy truck market in europe. however, improved activity in the u.s. and asian refrigerated trailer and truck markets during the fourth quarter helped to mitigate the declines in europe. in addition, sea-going container revenues and worldwide bus revenues have begun to improve in the fourth quarter due to an increase in end market activity. worldwide display cases and contracting revenue were impacted by continued slower supermarket capital expenditures in both the u.s. and europe. operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by $1,178.7 million, compared with the same period of 2008. this increase was a result of a non-cash charge of $1,240.0 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to the impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. excluding the impairment, which had an 18.3 point impact on 2008 operating margins, year-over-year operating income decreased 13.1% or $61.3 million. excluding the asset impairment charge of $1,200.0 million in 2008, operating income in the trane commercial hvac business increased $101.7 million compared with the same period in 2008, which only included the results of trane for the six months and 25 days since the acquisition date. this increase had a 21.7% impact to segment operating income. however, operating results for the year were negatively impacted by a significant reduction in volumes and pricing, partially offset by increased productivity and improved material costs. included in 2009 operating income within the trane commercial hvac business was $97.3 million of ongoing purchase accounting charges primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. in addition, we recorded $26.1 million of restructuring charges in 2009 associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. these costs had a combined 1.7 point impact on the segment 2009 operating margins. 2008 comparable amounts were $48.1 million related to ongoing purchase accounting costs and $14.6 million related to severance and other business integration costs. in addition, 2008 operating income included $147.4 million in non-recurring purchase accounting charges associated with the fair value allocation of purchase price to backlog, inventory and in-process research and development costs. these costs had a combined 3.1 point impact on the segment 2008 operating margins. operating income in our transport and stationary refrigeration business decreased by 51.1%, or $163.0 million, compared with the same period of 2008, excluding the $40.0 million asset impairment charge in 2008. this decrease, which had a 34.8% impact on segment operating income, resulted from lower volumes and product mix ($313 million) and an unfavorable currency impact. this decrease was partially offset by increased productivity ($127 million) and improved pricing ($34 million). in addition, we recorded $11.6 million of restructuring charges in 2009 associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. 2008 vs 2007 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2008 increased by 100.2% or $3,378.2 million, compared with the same period of 2007. the dramatic year-over-year increase was a result of the inclusion of the trane commercial hvac business since the acquisition date in 2008 operating results, which totaled $3,393.8 million for the period. excluding the results of trane, net revenues decreased by 0.5% or $15.6 million, compared with the same period in 2007. the slight decrease in the year-over-year results were primarily due to lower volumes (4%) offset by a favorable currency impact (3%) and improved pricing. net revenues for the trane commercial hvac businesses decreased in both domestic and international markets. increased revenues for parts, services and solutions were more than offset by a decline in equipment revenue. net revenues for our transport and stationary refrigeration business decreased primarily as a result of the decline in the truck market, which decreased refrigerated trailer and truck revenues in north america and europe. in addition, sea-going container revenues, as well as bus and aftermarket revenues also decreased as a result of slower end market activity. worldwide display cases and contracting revenue decreased due to declines in display case sales to regional supermarkets in the u.s. and a sharp decline in the installation business. however, sales of the tripac &reg; auxiliary unit continued to experience substantial growth in 2008. 38 table of contents operating income for the year ended december 31, 2008 decreased by $1,154.4 million compared to the same period of 2007. in the fourth quarter, we recognized a non-cash charge of $1,240.0 million related to the impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets within the segment. the charge had an 18.3 point impact on operating margins in 2008. excluding the asset impairment, the trane commercial hvac business added $149.3 million of operating income to the segment since the acquisition date. included within operating income is $147.4 million in non-recurring purchase accounting charges associated with the fair value allocation of purchase price to inventory step-up, backlog amortization and in-process research and development costs. in addition, ongoing purchase accounting charges, primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets, were $48.1 million. other significant charges associated with the acquisition were $14.6 million and were primarily related to severance and other business integration costs. these costs had a combined 3.1 point impact on the segment operating margins in 2008. excluding the asset impairment, operating income in our transport and stationary refrigeration business for the year ended december 31, 2008 decreased by 16.6% or $63.7 million, compared to the same period in 2007. during 2008, we recorded $38.6 million of restructuring charges associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. other factors contributing to the year-over-year decrease were lower volumes and product mix ($73 million) and increased material costs ($46 million), partially offset by increased productivity ($51 million), improved pricing ($44 million) and a favorable currency impact. residential solutions our residential solutions segment provides safety, comfort and efficiency to homeowners throughout north america and parts of south america. it offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions including mechanical and electronic locks, energy-efficient hvac systems, indoor air quality solutions, advanced controls, portable security systems and remote home management. this segment is comprised of well-known brands like american standard, schlage and trane. in the fourth quarter of 2009, we realigned our external reporting structure to eliminate the air conditioning systems and services segment, which represented the trane commercial and residential businesses acquired at the close of business on june 5, 2008 (the acquisition date). as a result, the trane residential hvac business is now incorporated within the newly created residential solutions segment, along with our residential security business. reported results include revenue and operating income from the trane residential hvac business for the six months and 25 days since the acquisition date in 2008 and for the full year in 2009. dollar amounts in millions 2009 % change 2008 % change 2007 net revenues $ 2,001.5 35.8% $ 1,473.7 180.3% $ 525.7 operating income (loss) 122.9 n/a (2,037.0 ) * n/a 44.9 operating margin 6.1% -138.2% 8.5% * amount includes a non-cash impairment charge of $2,110.0 million. 2009 vs. 2008 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by 35.8% or $527.8 million, compared with the same period of 2008, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix -3.8 % pricing 0.6 % acquisition of trane residential hvac business 39.0 % total 35.8 % 39 table of contents net revenues in the trane residential hvac business increased $574.1 million compared with the same period of 2008. the increase, which represented 39.0% of the segment year-over-year increase, was a consequence of 2008 reported results only reflecting activity since the acquisition date. net revenues for the trane residential hvac business for the year ended december 31, 2009 were impacted by lower volumes and reduced pricing. net revenues in the residential security business decreased by 9.9%, or $46.3 million, compared with the same period of 2008. the decrease, which had a 3.2% impact on the segment year-over-year results, was primarily due to lower volumes and product mix (4%). these reductions were slightly offset by improved pricing (1%). trane residential hvac revenues were impacted by continued weakness in the u.s. housing market. however, improved fourth quarter sales to the replacement market helped to mitigate the slower end market activity. residential security revenues were impacted by lower same store sales at large customers and ongoing weakness in the new homebuilder channel. in the fourth quarter, these declines were more than offset by new product revenues and market share gains. operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by $2,159.9 million, compared with the same period of 2008. this increase was a result of a non-cash charge of $2,110.0 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to the impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets within the trane residential hvac business. excluding the impairment, which had a 143.2 point impact on 2008 operating margins, year-over-year operating income increased by 68.4% or $49.9 million. excluding the asset impairment charge in 2008, operating income in the trane residential hvac business increased $43.1 million compared with the same period in 2008, which included the results of trane for the six months and 25 days since the acquisition date. this increase had a 59.0% impact to segment operating income, excluding impairment. however, operating results for the year were impacted by a reduction in volumes and pricing, offset by increased productivity and improved material costs. included in 2009 operating income for the trane residential hvac business was $80.6 million of ongoing purchase accounting charges primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. in addition, we recorded $7.5 million of restructuring charges in 2009 associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. these costs had a combined 4.4 point impact on the segment 2009 operating margins. 2008 comparable amounts were $33.0 million related to ongoing purchase accounting costs and $5.6 million related to severance and other business integration costs. in addition, 2008 operating income included $11.0 million in non-recurring purchase accounting charges associated with the fair value allocation of purchase price to backlog, inventory and in-process research and development costs. these costs had a combined 3.3 point impact on the segment 2008 operating margins. operating income in our residential security business increased by 11.7%, or $6.8 million, compared with the same period of 2008. this increase, which had a 9.3% impact on segment operating income, resulted from increased productivity ($18 million) and improved pricing ($10 million). this increase was partially offset by lower volumes and product mix ($16 million). in addition, we recorded $1.4 million of restructuring charges in 2009 associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. 2008 vs. 2007 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2008 increased by 180.3% or $948.0 million, compared with the same period of 2007. the dramatic year-over-year increase was a result of the inclusion of the trane residential hvac business since the acquisition date, which totaled $1,007.5 million for the period. excluding the results of trane, net revenues decreased by 11.3% or $59.5 million, compared with the same period in 2007. the decrease in year-over-year results were primarily due to lower volumes (22%) offset by improved pricing (10%). net revenues for the trane residential hvac businesses decreased in all markets. in addition, net revenues for our residential security business decreased primarily due to lower volume as a result of lower same store sales at large customers and ongoing weakness in the new homebuilder channel. 40 table of contents operating income for the year ended december 31, 2008 decreased by $2,081.9 million, compared to the same period of 2007. in the fourth quarter, we recognized a non-cash charge of $2,110.0 million related to the impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets within the trane residential hvac business. excluding the asset impairment charge, which had a 143.2 point impact on operating margins in 2008, year-over-year operating income increased by 62.6% or $28.1 million. excluding the asset impairment, the trane residential hvac business added $15.0 million of operating income to the segment since the acquisition date in 2008. this increase contributed 33.4% to the year-over-year increase in overall operating income. included within operating income is $11.0 million in non-recurring purchase accounting charges associated with the fair value allocation of purchase price to inventory step-up, backlog amortization and in-process research and development costs. in addition, ongoing purchase accounting charges, primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets, were $33.0 million. other significant charges associated with the acquisition were $5.6 million and were primarily related to severance and other business integration costs. these costs had a combined 3.3 point impact on the segment operating margins in 2008. operating income in our residential security business for the year ended december 31, 2008 increased by 29.2% or $13.1 million, compared to the same period in 2007. factors contributing to the year-over-year increase were improved pricing ($51 million) and increased productivity ($16 million) partially offset by lower volumes and product mix ($53 million). in addition, we recorded $6.3 million of restructuring charges in 2008 associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announce restructuring plans. industrial technologies our industrial technologies segment provides products, services and solutions that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. it offers our global customers a diverse and innovative range of products including compressed air systems, tools, pumps, fluid handling systems, golf and utility vehicles in addition to environmentally friendly micro turbines. this segment includes the club car and ingersoll rand market leading brands. dollar amounts in millions 2009 % change 2008 % change 2007 net revenues $ 2,181.0 -25.8% $ 2,938.3 2.1% $ 2,877.1 operating income 171.8 -51.4% 353.7 -9.8% 392.0 operating margin 7.9% 12.0% 13.6% 2009 vs 2008 for the year ended december 31, 2009, net revenues decreased by 25.8% or $757.3 million, compared with the same period of 2008. the primary drivers of the year-over-year decrease were lower volumes and product mix (25%) and an unfavorable currency impact (2%). these reductions were partially offset by improved pricing (1%). revenues in the air and productivity solutions business declined in all geographic areas. the decrease in the u.s. was a result of volume declines in major industrial, process and fluid handling end markets as well as lower aftermarket results. non-u.s. revenues were also impacted by volume declines in industrial activity. club car revenues sharply decreased in all geographic areas due to weakening economic fundamentals in key golf, hospitality and recreation markets. in addition, the decline was impacted by customers deferring golf car replacement by extending their leases. market share gains and growth in low-speed vehicle sales at club car helped to offset some of the slow end market activity. operating income decreased by 51.4% or $181.9 million during 2009. during 2009, we recorded $27.1 million of restructuring charges associated with employee termination benefits and other cost associated with announced restructuring plans, which had a 1.2 point impact on operating margins. the remaining decrease was primarily related to lower volumes and product mix ($263 million), an unfavorable currency impact ($20 million) and higher material costs ($17 million). these reductions were partially offset by increased productivity ($123 million) and improved pricing ($16 million). 41 table of contents 2008 vs 2007 for the year ended december 31, 2008, net revenues increased by 2.1% or $61.2 million, compared with the same period of 2007. the primary drivers of the year-over-year increase were improved pricing (2%), acquisitions (2%) and a favorable currency impact (1%). the improved results were partially offset by lower volumes and product mix (3%). the increase in segment revenue was driven by the worldwide increase in the air and productivity solutions business. however, lower volumes in all geographic areas in the second half of the year show the weakening industrial and fluid handling end markets. in addition, slower industrial production levels as well as the deferral of some maintenance by customers more than offset aftermarket growth. club car revenues declined in all geographic areas compared with 2007 mainly due to weak economic fundamentals in key golf, hospitality and recreation markets. however, the business continued to gain market share in the declining golf market and a softening utility vehicle market. operating income decreased by 9.8% or $38.3 million during 2008. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded $9.6 million of restructuring charges associated with employee termination benefits and other cost associated with announced restructuring plans, which had a 0.4 point impact on operating margins. the remaining decrease was primarily related to higher material costs ($61 million), lower volumes and product mix ($42 million) and increased spending on new product development ($15 million). these reductions were partially offset by improved pricing ($62 million) and increased productivity ($46 million). security technologies our security technologies segment is a leading global provider of products and services that make environments safe, secure and productive. the segment market-leading solutions include electronic and biometric access control systems and software, locks and locksets, door closers, exit devices, steel doors and frames as well as time, attendance and personnel scheduling systems. these products serve a wide range of markets including the commercial construction market, healthcare, retail, maritime and transport industries as well as educational and governmental facilities. this segment includes the cisa, lcn, schlage and von duprin brands. in the fourth quarter of 2009, we realigned our external reporting structure to eliminate the air conditioning systems and services segment, which represented the trane commercial and residential businesses acquired at the close of business on june 5, 2008 (the acquisition date). as a result, the trane residential hvac business is now incorporated within the newly created residential solutions segment, along with our residential security business. as a result, our residential security business is no longer included as a part of our security technologies segment, which now represents our commercial security business. dollar amounts in millions 2009 % change 2008 % change 2007 net revenues $ 1,719.1 -16.7% $ 2,064.8 3.9% $ 1,987.9 operating income 323.7 663.4% 42.4 * -89.1% 388.6 operating margin 18.8% 2.1% 19.5% * amount includes a non-cash impairment charge of $360.0 million. 2009 vs 2008 for the year ended december 31, 2009, net revenues decreased by 16.7% or $345.7 million, compared with the same period of 2008. the year-over-year decrease was primarily related to lower volumes and product mix (17%) and an unfavorable currency impact (2%). these reductions were partially offset by improved pricing (2%). the decrease in net revenues was a result of the recent decline in the worldwide contracting of construction markets. revenues were impacted by the decline in new building and remodeling markets in the united states and europe. 42 table of contents operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by 663.4% or $281.3 million, compared with the same period of 2008. this increase was a result of a non-cash charge of $360.0 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to the impairment of goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and marketable securities within the segment. the charge had a 17.4 point impact on 2008 operating margins. excluding the asset impairment charge, operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 decreased by 19.6% or $78.7 million, compared with the same period in 2008. the decrease was primarily a result of lower volumes and product mix ($179 million) and an unfavorable currency impact ($14 million). these reductions were partially offset by increased productivity ($75 million), improved pricing ($46 million) and lower material costs ($15 million). we also recorded $24.5 million of restructuring charges in 2009 associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. 2008 vs 2007 for the year ended december 31, 2008, net revenues increased by 3.9% or $76.9 million, compared with the same period of 2007. the year-over-year increase was primarily related to improved pricing (3%) and a favorable currency impact (1%). net revenues increased slightly during the year driven by electronic solutions growth in asia. however, declines in the north american commercial construction market and well as in europe during the fourth quarter significantly lowered year-over-year revenues. operating income decreased by 89.1% or $346.2 million during 2008. in the fourth quarter, we recognized a non-cash charge of $360.0 million related to the impairment of goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and marketable securities within the segment. the charge had a 17.4 point impact on operating margins in 2008. excluding the impairment charge, operating income for the year ended december 31, 2008 increased by 3.6% or $13.8 million, compared to the same period in 2007. the increase was primarily a result of improved pricing ($68 million) and productivity gains ($26 million), which more than offset the decrease in volume ($22 million), increased material costs ($16 million) and a negative currency impact ($7 million). we also recorded $6.8 million of restructuring charges in 2008 associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. discontinued operations the components of discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2009 2008 2007 revenues $ - $ 15.3 $ 2,957.8 pre-tax earnings (loss) from operations (60.5 ) (50.3 ) (82.5 ) pre-tax gain (loss) on sale 1.6 (5.2 ) 4,391.6 tax benefit (expense) 47.3 (1.9 ) (1,066.5 ) discontinued operations, net $ (11.6 ) $ (57.4 ) $ 3,242.6 during 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of $28 million primarily associated with reducing our liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and a tax charge of $29 million associated with correcting immaterial accounting errors. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for a further description of these tax matters. pre-tax loss from operations in 2007 includes a non-cash charge of $449.0 million related to our liability for all pending and estimated future asbestos claims through 2053 as discussed below in other discontinued operations. 43 table of contents discontinued operations by business for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2009 2008 2007 compact equipment, net of tax $ (30.6 ) $ (11.7 ) $ 2,927.1 road development, net of tax 9.0 (29.8 ) 681.5 other discontinued operations, net of tax 10.0 (15.9 ) (366.0 ) total discontinued operations, net of tax $ (11.6 ) $ (57.4 ) $ 3,242.6 compact equipment divestiture on july 29, 2007, we agreed to sell our bobcat, utility equipment and attachments business units (collectively, compact equipment) to doosan infracore for gross proceeds of approximately $4.9 billion, subject to post closing purchase price adjustments. the sale was completed on november 30, 2007. we are currently in the process of resolving the final purchase price adjustments with doosan infracore. compact equipment manufactured and sold compact equipment, including skid-steer loaders, compact track loaders, mini-excavators and telescopic tool handlers; portable air compressors, generators and light towers; general-purpose light construction equipment; and attachments. we accounted for compact equipment as discontinued operations within the income statement. net revenues and after-tax earnings of compact equipment for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2009 2008 2007 net revenues $ - $ 15.3 $ 2,705.9 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $7.2 $(0.6 ) $275.1 gain (loss) on sale, net of tax (37.8 ) (11.1 ) 2,652.0 total discontinued operations, net of tax $ (30.6 ) $ (11.7 ) $ 2,927.1 road development divestiture on february 27, 2007, we agreed to sell our road development business unit to ab volvo (publ) for cash proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion. the sale was completed on april 30, 2007. the road development business unit manufactured and sold asphalt paving equipment, compaction equipment, milling machines and construction-related material handling equipment. we accounted for the road development business unit as discontinued operations within the income statement. net revenues and after-tax earnings of the road development business unit for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2009 2008 2007 net revenues $ - $ - $ 251.9 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ 0.8 $ (0.4 ) $ 37.8 gain (loss) on sale, net of tax 8.2 (29.4 ) 643.7 total discontinued operations, net of tax $ 9.0 $ (29.8 ) $ 681.5 44 table of contents other discontinued operations we also have retained costs from previously sold businesses that mainly include costs related to postretirement benefits, product liability and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related). the components of other discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2009 2008 2007 retained costs, net of tax $ 4.4 $ (16.7 ) $ (340.9 ) net gain (loss) on disposals, net of tax 5.6 0.8 (25.1 ) total discontinued operations, net of tax $ 10.0 $ (15.9 ) $ (366.0 ) retained costs, net of tax for the year ended december 31, 2008 includes $6.5 million of after-tax costs related to an adverse verdict in a product liability lawsuit associated with a previously divested business. during the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded a non-cash charge of $449.0 million ($277 million after-tax) related to our liability for all pending and estimated future asbestos claims through 2053. refer to note 23 in the consolidated financial statements for further details on asbestos-related matters. liquidity and capital resources during the year ended december 31, 2009, we completed a comprehensive financing program that significantly enhanced our liquidity and debt profile. actions taken include the issuance of $1.0 billion of long-term debt (senior notes and exchangeable senior notes) in april 2009 and the replacement of our trane accounts receivable purchase program in march 2009 with a new accounts receivable purchase program that encompassed originators from all four of our business segments. the proceeds from our debt issuance were used to repay the $950.0 million outstanding under our senior unsecured bridge loan facility. we currently believe that our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated by our operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital markets will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for the foreseeable future. liquidity the following table contains several key measures to gauge our financial condition and liquidity at the period ended december 31: in millions 2009 2008 2007 cash and cash equivalents $ 876.7 $ 550.2 $ 4,735.3 short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt 876.7 2,350.4 741.0 long-term debt 3,219.9 2,773.7 712.7 total debt 4,096.6 5,124.1 1,453.7 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders equity 7,101.8 6,661.4 7,907.9 total shareholders equity 7,205.7 6,762.1 8,005.4 debt-to-total capital ratio 36.2% 43.1% 15.4% the large cash and cash equivalents balance at december 31, 2007 is attributable to the sale of both the compact equipment and the road development business units during 2007, which generated proceeds of $6,154.3 million. the lower cash and cash equivalents balance at december 31, 2008 is a result of the acquisition of trane. 45 table of contents short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt consisted of the following: in millions 2009 2008 commercial paper program $ - $ 998.7 senior unsecured bridge loan facility - 754.0 debentures with put feature 343.6 345.7 current maturities of long-term debt 526.5 200.4 other short-term borrowings 6.6 51.6 total $ 876.7 $ 2,350.4 commercial paper program we use borrowings under our commercial paper program for general corporate purposes. as of december 31, 2009, we had no outstanding commercial paper borrowings after paying down $998.7 million during 2009. we funded these payments primarily using cash generated from operations. senior unsecured bridge loan facility in connection with the trane acquisition, we entered into a $3.9 billion senior unsecured bridge loan facility, with a 364-day term. we drew down $2.95 billion against the bridge loan facility in june 2008. the proceeds, along with cash on hand and the issuance of $1.5 billion in commercial paper, were used to fund the cash component of the consideration paid for the acquisition as well as to pay for related fees and expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition. as of december 31, 2008, our outstanding balance of the senior unsecured bridge loan facility was $754 million after a $196 million payment in the fourth quarter of 2008. in the first quarter of 2009, we borrowed an additional $196 million under the facility, increasing the outstanding balance to $950.0 million as of march 31, 2009. we repaid the outstanding balance in april 2009 with proceeds from our long-term debt issuance as discussed below and terminated the facility. debentures with put feature at december 31, 2007, we had outstanding $547.9 million of fixed rate debentures which only requires early repayment at the option of the holder. these debentures contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. if exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. if these options are not fully exercised, the final maturity dates would range between 2027 and 2028. in 2008, holders of these debentures chose to exercise the put feature on $202.2 million of the debentures. as a result, approximately $345.7 million remained outstanding as of december 31, 2008. in 2009, holders of these debentures chose to exercise the put feature on $2.1 million of the remaining debentures. as a result, approximately $343.6 million remained outstanding at december 31, 2009. in february 2010, holders of these debentures have the option to exercise the put feature on $37.2 million of the outstanding debentures. based on our cash flow forecast, we believe we will have sufficient liquidity to repay any amounts redeemable as a result of these put features. long-term debt in august 2008, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the securities and exchange commission (sec) for an indeterminate amount of securities for future issuance and issued $1.6 billion of long-term debt pursuant to the shelf registration statement through our wholly owned subsidiary, ir global holding company limited. this issuance consisted of $250 million senior floating rate notes due in 2010, $600 million 6.000% senior notes due in 2013 and $750 million 6.875% senior notes due in 2018. these notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ir-limited. the net proceeds from the offering were used to reduce the amount outstanding under the senior unsecured bridge loan facility. 46 table of contents interest on the fixed rate notes will be paid twice a year. we have the option to redeem them in whole or in part at any time, and from time to time, prior to their stated maturity date at redemption prices set forth in the debt offering documents. interest on the floating rate notes will be paid four times a year. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations. senior notes due 2014 in april 2009, we issued $655 million of 9.5% senior notes through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ingersoll-rand global holding company limited (ir-global). the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international. interest on the fixed rate notes will be paid twice a year in arrears. we have the option to redeem them in whole or in part at any time, and from time to time, prior to their stated maturity date at redemption prices set forth in the indenture agreement. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations. exchangeable senior notes due 2012 in april 2009, we issued $345 million of 4.5% exchangeable senior notes through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international. interest on the exchangeable notes will be paid twice a year in arrears. in addition, holders may exchange their notes at their option prior to november 15, 2011 in accordance with specified circumstances set forth in the indenture agreement or anytime on or after november 15, 2011 through their scheduled maturity. upon exchange, the notes will be paid in cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be exchanged, the remainder due on the option feature, if any, will be paid in cash, ir ordinary shares or a combination thereof at the option of the company. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations. we allocated the proceeds of the exchangeable notes between debt and equity, in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. we allocated approximately $305 million of the gross proceeds to debt, with the remaining discount of approximately $40 million (approximately $39 million after allocated fees) recorded within equity. additionally, we will amortize the discount into earnings over a three-year period. accounts receivable purchase program on march 31, 2009, we expanded our existing trane accounts receivable purchase program and replaced it with a new accounts receivable purchase program that encompassed originators from all four of our business segments. the increase in originators allowed us to increase the program size from $150 million to $325 million. at december 31, 2009, the outstanding balance of eligible trade receivables sold to an affiliated master special purpose vehicle was $544.2 million. however, no net interests have been sold to any of the three conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions. in the first quarter of 2010, we expect to terminate the new accounts receivable purchase program prior to its expiration in march 2010. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for a further description of the program. pension plans our investment objectives in managing defined benefit plan assets are to ensure that present and future benefit obligations to all participants and beneficiaries are met as they become due; to provide a total return that, over the long-term, minimizes our required contributions at the appropriate levels of risk; and to meet any statutory or regulatory requirements. we monitor the impact of market conditions on our funding requirements and pension plan expense on a quarterly basis. none of our pension plans have experienced any significant impact on their liquidity to pay retirees in the plans due to the volatility in the markets. for further details on pension plan activity, see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. 47 table of contents cash flows the following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended december 31, respectively. for additional details, please see the consolidated statements of cash flows in the consolidated financial statements. in millions 2009 2008 2007 operating cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations $ 1,751.5 $ 374.3 $ 826.3 investing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (182.7 ) (7,306.4 ) 6,052.4 financing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (1,208.1 ) 2,760.6 (2,568.5 ) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $1,751.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared with $374.3 million in 2008. prior year operating cash flows were impacted by a tax payment of approximately $700 million in the first quarter of 2008 paid to various taxing authorities primarily associated with the compact equipment divestiture. cash flows from operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2009 include significant improvements in accounts receivable collections and inventory management, in addition to the results of trane for the entire period. net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $374.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2008 compared with $826.3 million in 2007. the change was primarily related to tax payments of approximately $1.1 billion paid to various taxing authorities, $594.4 million associated with the compact equipment divestiture. tax payments in 2007 were approximately $470 million. in addition, cash flows from operating activities include trane cash flows from operations since the acquisition date. investing activities net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $182.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared with $7,306.4 million in 2008. the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to cash used for the acquisition of trane in 2008. net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $7,306.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2008 compared with net cash provided by continuing operations of $6,052.4 million in 2007. the change is primarily attributable to cash used for the acquisition of trane in 2008. in addition, during the year ended december 31, 2007, net cash proceeds of $6,154.3 million was received related to the sale of compact equipment and the road development business unit. financing activities net cash used in financing activities during the year ended december 31, 2009 was $1,208.1 million, compared with $2,760.6 million of net cash provided by financing activities during 2008. the change in financing activities is primarily related to the proceeds received from the bridge loan facility and commercial paper used to finance the acquisition of trane in june 2008. during the year ended december 31, 2009, we refinanced the bridge loan facility and repaid the amounts outstanding on our commercial paper program. net cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations was $2,760.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2008 compared with $2,568.5 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2007. the change in financing activities primarily relates to the outstanding balance of both our bridge loan facility and commercial paper which were used to finance the acquisition of trane. in addition, $1.6 billion relates to the net proceeds from our long-term debt issuance in august 2008. furthermore, 2007 was impacted by the repurchase of $2.0 billion of our outstanding shares. 48 table of contents capital resources based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations through at least the next 12 months. capital expenditures were $204.2 million, $306.0 million and $119.7 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs and provide environmental enhancements and advanced technologies for existing facilities. the capital expenditure program for 2010 is estimated to be approximately $250 million, including amounts approved in prior periods. many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges. during 2007, we initiated restructuring actions relating to ongoing cost reduction efforts across each of our sectors. these actions include both workforce reductions as well as the consolidation of manufacturing facilities. in addition, we announced plans to initiate enterprise-wide restructuring actions in october 2008. these actions include streamlining the footprint of manufacturing facilities and reducing the general and administrative cost base. as of december 31, 2009, we have incurred approximately $182.1 million of costs associated with these restructuring actions since the fourth quarter of 2008. for financial market risk impacting the company, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper programs. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper programs is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2009, our credit ratings were as follows: short-term long-term moody p-2 baa1 standard and poor a-2 bbb+ the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. in june 2008, we entered into a $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility with a three-year term. the line is unused and provides support for our commercial paper program as well as for other general corporate purposes. in addition to the three-year credit facility, we have a committed revolving credit facility totaling $1.25 billion, which expires in august 2010. this line is unused and provides support for our commercial paper program as well as for other general corporate purposes. other available non-u.s. lines of credit were $993.3 million, of which $823.9 million were unused at december 31, 2009. these lines provide support for bank guarantees, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes. our public debt does not contain any financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2009, our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. guarantees as part of the reorganization of ir-new jersey in 2001, ir-limited fully and unconditionally guaranteed all of the issued public debt securities of ir-new jersey. ir-new jersey unconditionally guaranteed payment of the 49 table of contents principal, premium, if any, and interest on ir-limited 4.75% senior notes due in 2015 in aggregate principal amount of $300 million. the guarantee is unsecured and provided on an unsubordinated basis. the guarantee ranks equally in right of payment with all of the existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated debt of ir-new jersey. in addition, public debt securities issued by ir global holding company limited (ir-global) are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ir-limited. as a part of the reorganization of ir-limited in 2009, the guarantee structure was updated to reflect the newly created legal structure under which (i) ir-international assumed the obligations of ir-limited as issuer or guarantor, as the case may be, and (ii) ir-ireland and ir-limited fully and unconditionally guaranteed the obligations under the various indentures covering the currently outstanding public debt of ir-international, ir-global and ir-new jersey. neither ir-ireland nor ir-limited has issued or intends to issue guarantees in respect of any indebtedness incurred by trane. contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment periods, in millions: less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total short-term debt $ 6.6 $ - $ - $ - $ 6.6 long-term debt 868.8 * 377.2 ** 1,273.2 1,610.0 4,129.2 interest payments on long-term debt 256.9 475.4 382.1 716.2 1,830.6 purchase obligations 847.4 7.5 3.5 - 858.4 operating leases 169.9 242.0 138.2 123.9 674.0 total contractual cash obligations $ 2,149.6 $ 1,102.1 $ 1,797.0 $ 2,450.1 $ 7,498.8 * includes $343.6 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. ** includes $345 million related to the exchangeable senior notes due in 2012. see note 13 in the consolidated financial statements for additional information. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental and asbestos matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. pensions at december 31, 2009, we had net obligations of $903.0 million, which consist of noncurrent pension assets of $1.1 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $904.1 million. it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $85 million to our plans worldwide in 2010. because the timing and amounts of long-term funding requirements for pension obligations are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2009, we had postretirement benefit obligations of $979.4 million. we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $79 million in 2010. because the timing and amounts of long-term funding requirements for postretirement obligations are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. income taxes at december 31, 2009, we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $525.1 million and $80.3 million of related accrued interest and penalties. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table 50 table of contents as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding matters relating to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits and irs tax disputes. environmental and asbestos matters we are involved in various litigations, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 23 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. see note 13 and note 23 for additional information on matters affecting our liquidity. critical accounting policies management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from estimates. the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. allowance for doubtful accounts the company has provided an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable which represents the best estimate of probable loss inherent in the company accounts receivable portfolio. this estimate is based upon the company policy, derived from its knowledge of its end markets, customer base and products. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset may be less than the carrying amount of the asset. recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level and determined using a two step process. the first step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a second step is performed, wherein the reporting unit carrying value of goodwill is compared to the implied fair value of goodwill. to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value, impairment exists and must be recognized. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value in step one is based on two valuation techniques, a discounted cash flow model (income approach) and a market adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (market approach), with each method being equally weighted in the calculation. in step 2, the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, was the price paid to acquire that reporting unit. 51 table of contents recoverability of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the intangible assets to the estimated fair value of the respective intangible assets. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. the calculation of estimated fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. the determination of estimated fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill requires management to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. management developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. 2009 impairment test for our annual impairment testing during the fourth quarter of 2009, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates generally ranging from 11% to 15% and terminal growth rates generally ranging from 2% to 5%. under the market approach, management used an adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, management compared the estimate aggregate fair value of its reporting units to the company overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except one, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15%. the one reporting unit with a percentage of carrying value less than 15%, reported within the climate solutions segment, exceeded its carrying value by 8%. this reporting unit has goodwill of approximately $840 million. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. 2008 impairment test due to the deterioration in the worldwide equity and credit markets and a tightening of industrial and retail end markets in the fourth quarter of 2008, the company market capitalization declined well below its book value. in addition, the weakening worldwide economic conditions resulted in our projected 2009 financial performance decline. as a result, the company updated its impairment testing through december 31, 2008. based on the estimated fair value and book value of our reporting units, we recorded an impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 of approximately $3,710.0 million ($3,385.0 million after-tax). the assumptions used represent management best estimate of fair value. under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates generally ranging from 11%-15% and terminal growth rates generally ranging from 2%-5%. under the market approach, management used an adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, management compared the estimated aggregate fair value of its reporting units to the company overall market capitalization. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying 52 table of contents value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. the company believes that its use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. loss contingencies liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business, including litigation and administrative proceedings, environmental and asbestos matters and product liability, product warranty, worker compensation and other claims. the company has recorded reserves in the financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience data depending on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances with consultation of legal counsel, internal and external consultants and engineers. subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, the company believes its estimated reserves are reasonable and does not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the company for any year. asbestos matters certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. the company records a liability for its actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. although the company was neither a manufacturer nor producer of asbestos, some of its formerly manufactured components from third party suppliers utilized asbestos related components. as a result, the company records certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax, as they relate to previously divested businesses. income and expenses associated with trane asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries are recorded within continuing operations. refer to note 23 in the consolidated financial statements for further details of asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized and earned when all of the following criteria are satisfied: (a) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; (b) price is fixed or determinable; (c) collectability is reasonably assured; and (d) delivery has occurred or service has been rendered. delivery generally occurs when the title and the risks and rewards of ownership have substantially transferred to the customer. revenue from maintenance contracts or extended warranties is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, unless another method is more representative of the costs incurred. the company enters into agreements that contain multiple elements, such as equipment, installation and service revenue. for multiple-element arrangements, the company recognizes revenue for delivered elements when the delivered item has stand-alone value to the customer, fair values of undelivered elements are known, customer acceptance has occurred, and there are only customary refund or return rights related to the delivered elements. revenues from certain of our equipment and the related installation sold under construction-type contracts are recorded using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with gaap. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. the company recognizes future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-u.s. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in its judgment to be more likely than not. the company regularly reviews the recoverability of its deferred tax assets considering its historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of its tax planning strategies. where appropriate, the company records a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. effective january 1, 2007, the company adopted the provisions of fasb asc 740, income taxes, (asc 740) which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. additionally, asc 740 53 table of contents provides guidance on the recognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which the company operates. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by the company. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by the company and can raise issues regarding its filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which the company operates. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. the company believes that it has adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. the company will adjust its estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from the original or adjusted estimates of the company, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. employee benefit plans the company provides a range of benefits to eligible employees and retired employees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, employee mortality and turnover rates and health-care cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. the company reviews its actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of the measurement date. a discount rate reflects a rate at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. for u.s. plans, it is established and based primarily on a study based on the citigroup pension liability index. for non-u.s. plans, it is based upon a review of the current yields reported on aa corporate bonds or the yields of high-quality fixed-income investments available and expected to be available during the life of the plans. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of the measurement date. the company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on input from its actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $9.6 million and the estimated return on assets assumption would increase expense by approximately $6.4 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would increase net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.8 million and a 1.0% increase in the health-care cost trend rate would increase the cost by approximately $2.0 million. the preparation of financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions that affect a number of amounts included in the company consolidated financial statements. if actual amounts are ultimately different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in the company results for the period in which the actual amounts become known. historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between the company estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 54 table of contents recently adopted accounting pronouncements: fasb asc 715, compensation retirement benefits, (asc 715) requires an entity to measure its defined benefit plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer fiscal year-end statement of financial position. the measurement date provisions of asc 715 are effective for the company for the fiscal year ending december 31, 2008. the company has adopted the measurement provisions of asc 715, which resulted in an after-tax charge to retained earnings in the amount of $3.7 million ($6.5 million pre-tax) in 2008. plans acquired during 2008 were not impacted by this change. effective january 1, 2007, the company adopted the provisions of fasb asc 740, income taxes, (asc 740) which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. as a result of adopting these provisions of asc 740 as of january 1, 2007, the company recorded additional liabilities to its previously established reserves, and corresponding decrease in retained earnings of $145.6 million. in september 2006, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 820, fair value measurements and disclosures (asc 820) to provide a framework for measuring fair value that is based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing an asset or liability. asc 820 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information to develop those assumptions. additionally, the guidance expands the disclosures about fair value measurements to include disclosing the fair value measurements of assets or liabilities within each level of the fair value hierarchy. these provisions of asc 820 were effective for the company starting on january 1, 2008. in accordance with asc 820, the company has delayed its implementation of these provisions for the fair value of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and nonfinancial long-lived assets and liabilities. refer to note 16 in the consolidated financial statements for a full discussion of these provisions of asc 820. in february 2007, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 825, financial instruments (asc 825) which allows companies the option, at specified election dates, to measure financial assets and liabilities at their current fair value, with the corresponding changes in fair value from period to period recognized in the income statement. additionally, asc 825 establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar assets and liabilities. these provisions of asc 825 are effective for the company starting on january 1, 2008. as of december 31, 2009, the company has not elected this option available under asc 825. in december 2007, the fasb issued revised guidance to address the financial accounting and reporting for business combinations, which can be found in fasb asc 805, business combinations (asc 805). asc 805 supersedes sfas 141, business combinations and retains the fundamental requirements set forth therein regarding the purchase method of accounting. however, it expands the guidance to enable proper recognition and measurement, at fair value, the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired business. in addition, asc 805 introduces new accounting guidance on how to recognize and measure contingent consideration, contingencies, acquisition and restructuring costs. these provisions of asc 805 are effective for acquisitions occurring after january 1, 2009. in december 2007, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 810, consolidations (asc 810) which clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary represents an ownership interest that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. in addition, asc 810 requires expanded income statement presentation and disclosures that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the company and the interests of the non-controlling owners of the subsidiary. asc 810, as it relates to noncontrolling interests, is effective for the company starting on january 1, 2009. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on these provisions of asc 810. in march 2008, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 815, derivatives and hedging (asc 815) which amends and expands the disclosures previously required. asc 815 requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of gains 55 table of contents and losses on derivative instruments and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. the expanded disclosure requirements found in asc 815 as they relate to the modifications made in march 2008 are effective for the company starting on january 1, 2009. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these provisions of asc 815. in may 2008, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 470, debt (asc 470) which requires us to allocate between debt and equity the proceeds of the company exchangeable notes, in a manner that reflects the company nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. in addition, the company is required to amortize any discount into earnings over a period of three years. these provisions of asc 470 became applicable to the company during the second quarter of 2009, upon issuance of the exchangeable senior notes in april 2009. recently issued accounting pronouncements: in june 2009, the fasb issued revised guidance within asc 810. these revisions eliminate fasb interpretation 46(r) exceptions to consolidating qualifying special-purpose entities, contain new criteria for determining the primary beneficiary, and increase the frequency of required reassessments to determine whether a company is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. asc 810 also contains a new requirement that any term, transaction, or arrangement that does not have a substantive effect on an entity status as a variable interest entity, a company power over a variable interest entity, or a company obligation to absorb losses or its right to receive benefits of an entity must be disregarded in applying fasb interpretation 46(r) provisions. the elimination of the qualifying special-purpose entity concept and its consolidation exceptions means more entities will be subject to consolidation assessments and reassessments. these provisions of asc 810 are effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after november 15, 2009, and for interim periods within that first period, with earlier adoption prohibited. the company is currently assessing the potential impacts, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. in june 2009, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 860, transfers and servicing (asc 860). these revisions eliminate the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity, create more stringent conditions for reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale, clarify other sale- accounting criteria, and change the initial measurement of a transferor interest in transferred financial assets. these provisions of asc 860 will be effective for transfers of financial assets in fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2009 and in interim periods within those fiscal years with earlier adoption prohibited. the company is currently assessing the potential impacts, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. to manage certain of those exposures, we use derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts. derivative instruments utilized by us in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell their products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. we actively manage the currency exposures that are associated with purchases and sales and other assets and liabilities at the operating unit level. exposures that cannot be naturally offset within an operating unit to an insignificant amount are hedged with foreign currency derivatives. we also have non-u.s. currency net asset exposures, which we currently do not hedge with any derivative instrument. 56 table of contents we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential gain or loss in fair value based on a percentage increase or decrease in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2009, a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% increase in exchange rates would result in an unrealized gain of approximately $69.1 million, as compared with an unrealized gain of $23.9 million at december 31, 2008. these amounts would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying currency transactions. commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of raw materials used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have any committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2009. interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates would not have a material effect on our results of operations. 57 table of contents item 8 . financial statements and supplementary data (a) the following consolidated financial statements and the report thereon of pricewaterhousecoopers llp dated february 26, 2010, are presented following item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k. consolidated financial statements: report of independent registered public accounting firm consolidated statements of income for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2009 and 2008 for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: consolidated statements of shareholders equity consolidated statements of cash flows notes to consolidated financial statements financial statement schedule: consolidated schedule for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts (b) the unaudited quarterly financial data for the two years ended december 31, is as follows: in millions, except per share amounts 2009 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter net revenues $ 2,932.9 $ 3,473.8 $ 3,482.7 $ 3,305.8 cost of goods sold (2,206.4 ) (2,540.4 ) (2,486.6 ) (2,411.7 ) operating income (loss) 49.9 250.6 318.3 222.7 net earnings (loss) (21.8 ) 127.6 222.6 147.8 net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc (26.7 ) 122.1 216.6 139.4 earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic $ (0.08 ) $ 0.38 $ 0.67 $ 0.43 diluted $ (0.08 ) $ 0.38 $ 0.65 $ 0.42 2008 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter net revenues $ 2,163.3 $ 3,080.8 $ 4,313.2 $ 3,670.0 cost of goods sold (1,540.9 ) (2,196.1 ) (3,209.4 ) (2,801.6 ) operating income (loss) 247.0 361.6 347.4 (3,529.8 ) net earnings (loss) 185.4 262.6 233.2 (3,286.1 ) net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc 181.6 256.1 227.7 (3,290.2 ) earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic $ 0.66 $ 0.89 $ 0.71 $ (10.27 ) diluted $ 0.66 $ 0.88 $ 0.70 $ (10.27 ) 1. 2008 amounts include the results of trane since the acquisition date (june 5, 2008 through december 31, 2008). 2. the fourth quarter of 2008 includes a one-time, non-cash charge of $3,710.0 million ($3,385.0 after-tax) related to the impairment of assets. 58 table of contents item 9. c hanges in and disagreements with independent accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a. controls and procedures disclosure controls and procedures the company management, including its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act)), as of the end of the period covered by this annual report on form 10-k. based on that evaluation, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded as of december 31, 2009, that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that all material information required to be filed in this annual report on form 10-k has been recorded, processed, summarized and reported when required and the information is accumulated and communicated, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. management report on internal control over financial reporting the company management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined under exchange act rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate. management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2009. in making its assessment, management has utilized the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations (coso) of the treadway commission in internal control integrated framework. management concluded that based on its assessment, the company internal control over financial reporting was effective as of december 31, 2009. the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2009 has been audited by pricewaterhousecoopers llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein. changes in internal control over financial reporting there has been no change in the company internal controls over financial reporting during the quarter ended december 31, 2009 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company internal control over financial reporting. item 9b. other information none. 59 table of contents part iii the information called for by part iii (items 10, 11, 12, and 13) of form 10-k will be included in the company proxy statement for the company 2010 annual general meeting of shareholders, which the company intends to file within 120 days after the close of its fiscal year ended december 31, 2009 and is hereby incorporated by reference to such proxy statement, except that the information as to the company executive officers which follows item 4 in this annual report on form 10-k, is incorporated by reference into items 10 and 12, respectively, of this report. item 14. principal accountant fees and services the information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information contained under the caption fees of the independent auditors in our 2010 proxy statement. 60 table of contents part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statements schedule (a) 1. and 2. financial statements and financial statement schedule seerisk factors 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 55 8 table of contents backlog our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at december 31, 2010 and 2009, were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2010 2009 climate solutions $ 1,653.0 $ 1,602.5 residential solutions 73.8 32.7 industrial technologies 412.3 332.1 security technologies 165.1 160.4 total $ 2,304.2 $ 2,127.7 these backlog figures are based on orders received. while the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. we expect to ship substantially the entire backlog at december 31, 2010 during 2011. environmental matters we continue to be dedicated to an environmental program intended to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process as well as to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the environmental protection agency and similar state authorities. we have been also identified as a potentially responsible party (prp) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal superfund and state remediation sites. for all such sites, there are other prps and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal. in estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other prps who may be jointly and severally liable. the ability of other prps to participate has been taken into account, based generally on the parties financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future. during 2010, we spent $11.6 million for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $81.0 million and $91.4 million, respectively. given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain. for a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters and also note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims has been filed against either ir-new jersey or trane and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. 9 table of contents see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters and also note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. employees as of december 31, 2010, we employed approximately 59,000 people throughout the world. available information we file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the securities exchange act of 1934. the public may read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov. in addition, this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the board of directors of the company has also adopted and posted in the investor relations section of the company website our corporate governance guidelines and charters for each of the board standing committees. the contents of the company website are not incorporated by reference in this report. certifications new york stock exchange annual chief executive officer certification the company chief executive officer submitted to the new york stock exchange the annual ceo certification as the company compliance with the new york stock exchange corporate governance listing standards required by section 303a.12 of the new york stock exchange listing standards. sarbanes-oxley act section 302 certification the certifications of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the company pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 have been filed as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. 10 table of contents item 1a . risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the risk factors below are not the only risks faced by the company. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you invest in our publicly traded securities, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. oil for food program and foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) matters. on november 10, 2004, the securities and exchange commission (sec) issued an order directing that a number of public companies, including us, provide information relating to their participation in transactions under the united nations oil for food program. upon receipt of the order, we undertook a thorough review of our participation in the oil for food program, provided the sec with information responsive to the order and provided additional information requested by the sec. on october 31, 2007, we announced we had reached settlements with the sec and the department of justice (doj) relating to this matter. under the terms of the settlements, we paid a total of $6.7 million in penalties, interest and disgorgement of profits. we consented to the entry of a civil injunction in the sec action and entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement (dpa) with the doj. the dpa expired on october 31, 2010. under both settlements, we have implemented and will continue to implement improvements to our compliance program that are consistent with our longstanding policy against improper payments. on february 16, 2011, the doj filed a motion to dismiss the oil for food charges against us. in its motion, the doj noted that we fully cooperated with the investigation, and that we had met our obligations regarding improving our compliance policies and procedures relating to the fcpa. additionally, we have reported to the doj and sec certain matters which raise potential issues under the fcpa and other applicable anti-corruption laws, including matters which were reported during the past year. we have conducted, and continue to conduct, investigations and have had preliminary discussions with respect to these matters with the sec and doj, which are ongoing. the sec has sought additional information and documents regarding certain of these and other matters. these matters may be deemed to violate the fcpa and other applicable anti-corruption laws. such determinations could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects, financial position, or the market value of our stock. our global operations subject us to economic risks. our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the u.s. and internationally, including europe, china, brazil, venezuela, africa, india and turkey. these activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including the following: countries could change regulations or impose currency restrictions and other restraints; in some countries, there is a risk that the government may expropriate assets; 11 table of contents some countries impose burdensome tariffs and quotas; national and international conflict, including terrorist acts, could significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations; and economic downturns, political instability and war or civil disturbances may disrupt production and distribution logistics or limit sales in individual markets. currency exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. see part ii item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. more than 35% of our 2010 net revenues were derived outside the u.s., and we expect sales to non-u.s. customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues. although we enter into currency exchange contracts to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. because we do not hedge against all of our currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to currency fluctuations. furthermore, the reporting currency for our financial statements is the u.s. dollar. we have assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. to prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar versus other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. we are also a large buyer of steel and non-ferrous metals, as well as other commodities required for the manufacture of our products. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. although we do not currently, we may purchase commodity derivatives in the future which could reduce the near-term volatility of the commodity prices for supplier contracts where fixed pricing is not available. however, the company hedging activities would not be designed to mitigate long-term commodity price fluctuations and, therefore, would not protect the company from long-term commodity price increases. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other contingencies may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. such an outcome could have important consequences. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; 12 table of contents restrict our ability to exploit business opportunities; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness. significant shortages in the raw materials we use in our businesses and higher energy prices could increase our operating costs. we rely on suppliers to secure raw materials, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. a disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. nonetheless, the unavailability of some raw materials may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. additionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations for the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products to, and supplying services to, customers around the world. consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect certain segments of the company business and impact overall results of operations. demand for certain segments of the company products and services is influenced by weather conditions. for instance, trane sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. additionally, while there is demand for trane products and services throughout the year, a significant percentage of total sales are related to u.s. residential and commercial construction activity, which is generally higher in the second and third quarters of the year. therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of the company business and impact overall results of operations. if the distribution of wabco shares by trane on july 31, 2007 were to fail to qualify as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code (the code), then trane and trane shareholders who received wabco common stock in the distribution may be required to pay u.s. federal income taxes. on july 31, 2007, trane (then known as american standard companies inc.) completed the spinoff of its vehicle control systems business into a new publicly traded company named wabco. at the time, trane received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that the distribution qualified as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the code. in addition, trane received an opinion of skadden, arps, slate, meagher &amp; flom llp, tax counsel to trane, substantially to the effect that the distribution will qualify as tax-free to trane, wabco and trane shareholders under section 355 and related provisions of the code. the ruling and opinion were based on, among other things, certain assumptions as well as on the accuracy of certain factual representations and statements made by wabco and trane. in rendering its ruling, the irs also relied on certain covenants that trane and wabco entered into, including the adherence to certain restrictions on wabco and trane future actions. 13 table of contents in connection with our acquisition of trane in june 2008, we received an opinion of simpson thacher &amp; bartlett llp, tax counsel to us, substantially to the effect that the distribution should continue to qualify as tax-free to trane, wabco and trane shareholders under section 355 and related provisions of the code. notwithstanding receipt by trane and us of the private letter ruling as well as the opinions of counsel, there can be no assurance that the irs will not later assert that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction. if the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, then trane would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of wabco common stock distributed to the trane shareholders over (ii) trane tax basis in such common stock. under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free reorganization and such failure was not the result of actions taken after the distribution by trane or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders, wabco would be responsible for all taxes imposed on trane as a result thereof. in addition, each trane shareholder who received wabco common stock in the distribution generally would be treated as having received a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of wabco common stock received (including any fractional share sold on behalf of the shareholder), which would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of the shareholder ratable share of trane current and accumulated earnings and profits at the time (as increased to reflect any current income including any gain recognized by trane on the taxable distribution). the balance, if any, of the distribution would be treated as a nontaxable return of capital to the extent of the trane shareholder tax basis in its trane stock, with any remaining amount being taxed as capital gain. if wabco was unable to satisfy its obligations under the tax sharing agreement or if trane was unable to rely on the tax sharing agreement for any reason, any potential liability arising from the distribution of wabco shares by trane could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. risks relating to our past reorganizations we effected a corporate reorganization in december 2001 to become a bermuda company (the bermuda reorganization ) and a subsequent corporate reorganization in july 2009 to become an irish public limited company (the ireland reorganization ). these reorganizations exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations will be realized. changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under u.s. or other tax laws or adverse determinations by taxing authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. tax authorities or any other tax authority. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws of various jurisdictions that if enacted could increase our tax burden and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for instance, recent u. s. tax legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations. there are other recent u.s. tax legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. moreover, other u.s. tax legislative proposals could potentially affect us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our u.s. subsidiaries to our non-u.s. affiliates, which would adversely affect our effective tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation in any jurisdiction. while we are currently monitoring these proposals and others and are investigating all options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals are enacted and/or certain tax treaties are amended. 14 table of contents while our u.s. operations are subject to u.s. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-u.s. operations are generally not subject to u.s. tax other than withholding taxes. our conclusions are based on, among other things, our determination that we, and a significant portion of our foreign subsidiaries, are not currently controlled foreign corporations (cfc) within the meaning of the u.s. tax laws, although the irs or a court may not concur with our conclusions. a non-u.s. corporation, such as us, will constitute a cfc for u.s. federal income tax purposes if certain ownership criteria are met. if the irs or a court determined that we (or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc, then each of our u.s. shareholders who own (directly, indirectly, or constructively) 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our stock (or the stock of any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) on the last day of the applicable taxable year (a 10% u.s. voting shareholder ) would be required to include in gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our subpart f and other similar types of income (and the subpart f and other similar types of income of any of our subsidiaries determined to be a cfc) for the period during which we (and our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc. in addition, gain on the sale of our shares realized by such a shareholder may be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder proportionate share of our and our cfc subsidiaries undistributed earnings and profits accumulated during the shareholder holding period of the shares while we (or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) are a cfc. treatment of us or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries as a cfc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. on july 20, 2007, we received a notice from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years. the irs did not contest the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda. the most significant adjustments proposed by the irs involve treating the entire intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda as equity. as a result of this recharacterization, the irs disallowed the deduction of interest paid on the debt and imposed dividend withholding taxes on the payments denominated as interest. the irs also asserted an alternative argument to be applied if the intercompany debt is respected as debt. in that circumstance, the irs proposed to ignore the entities that hold the debt and to which the interest was paid, and impose 30% withholding tax on a portion of the interest payments as if they were made directly to a company that was not eligible for reduced u.s. withholding tax under a u.s. income tax treaty. the irs asserted under this alternative theory that we owe additional taxes with respect to 2002 of approximately $84 million plus interest. if either of these positions were upheld in their entirety, we would be required to record additional charges. we strongly disagreed with the view of the irs, and filed a protest with the irs in the third quarter of 2007. on january 12, 2010, we received an amended notice from the irs eliminating its assertion that the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda should be treated as equity. however, the irs continues to assert the alternative position described above and proposes adjustments to our 2001 and 2002 tax filings. in addition, the irs provided notice on january 19, 2010, that it is assessing penalties of 30% on the asserted underpayment of tax described above. we have and intend to continue to vigorously contest these proposed adjustments. we, in consultation with our outside advisors, carefully considered the form and substance of our intercompany financing arrangements, including the actions necessary to qualify for the benefits of the applicable u.s. income tax treaties. we believe that these financing arrangements are in accordance with the laws of the relevant jurisdictions including the u.s., that the entities involved should be respected and that the interest payments qualify for the u.s. income tax treaty benefits claimed. although the outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the strength of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for this matter. as we move forward to resolve this matter with the irs, it is reasonably possible that the reserves established may be adjusted. however, we do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or financial position. at this time, the irs has not proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2002. however, if all or a portion of these adjustments proposed by the irs are ultimately sustained, it is likely to also affect subsequent tax years. 15 table of contents as noted above, the irs did not contest the validity of the bermuda reorganization in the above-mentioned notices. we believe that neither we nor our consolidated subsidiary ir-new jersey will incur significant u.s. federal income or withholding taxes as a result of the transfer of the shares of our subsidiaries that occurred as part of the bermuda reorganization. however, we cannot give any assurances that the irs will agree with our determination. the inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our reorganizations could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. legislative and regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us. our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. tax authorities or any other tax authority. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws of various jurisdictions that if enacted could increase our tax burden and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, the obama administration has recently announced various u.s. tax legislative proposals that, if adopted, could adversely impact the company. legislative action may be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could potentially override u.s. tax treaties upon which we rely, broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident or modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, each of which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals, whether in the u.s. or another jurisdiction. however, if these or similar proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding the ireland reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between ireland and other jurisdictions (including the united states), modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, we could be subjected to increased taxation. in addition, any future amendments to current income tax treaties, including between ireland and other jurisdictions (including the united states) could subject us to increased taxation. also, the u.s. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to u.s. companies that reincorporate outside of the u.s. or have reincorporated outside of the u.s. for instance, the homeland security act of 2002, as amended, includes a provision that prohibits inverted domestic corporations and their subsidiaries from entering into contracts with the department of homeland security. in addition, the state of california adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain non-u.s. chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts. more recently, the 2008, 2009 and 2010 consolidated appropriations acts prohibit any federal government agency from using funds appropriated by congress for fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010 to pay an inverted domestic corporation or any of its subsidiaries for work performed or products provided under certain federal contracts ( affected contracts ). although the amount of monies already paid to us or to be paid to us under the affected contracts is not material to the company, we cannot provide any assurance that the impact of future actions taken by the government in this area will not be materially adverse to our operations. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct business in the united states and in other countries but have changed their place of incorporation to another country. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear 16 table of contents actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. in addition, irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. also, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. these authorizations must be renewed by the shareholders every five years and we cannot guarantee that these authorizations will always be approved. a future transfer of our shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. in certain circumstances, the transfer of shares in an irish incorporated company will be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired) payable by the buyer. although in the majority of transactions there will be no stamp duty because both the seller and buyer hold the shares beneficially, this additional risk for the buyer could adversely affect the price of our shares. although we currently intend to cause one of our affiliates to pay stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially, our articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, we (i) may seek reimbursement from the transferor or transferee (at our discretion), (ii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends payable to the transferor or transferee (at our discretion), and (iii) will have a lien against our shares on which we have paid stamp duty and any dividends paid on such shares. our effective tax rate may increase notwithstanding the ireland reorganization. while the ireland reorganization is not anticipated to have any material impact on our effective tax rate, there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate (which include the potential legislative actions described above), and our effective tax rate may increase and any such increase may be material. additionally, the tax laws of ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, as an irish tax resident company, we are required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. in the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the united states will not be subject to irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain irish dividend withholding tax forms. however, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of our shares. 17 table of contents dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ingersoll rand. our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ingersoll rand. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties as of december 31, 2010, we owned or leased a total of approximately 20 million square feet of space worldwide. manufacturing and assembly operations are conducted in 80 plants across the world. we also maintain various warehouses, offices and repair centers throughout the world. the majority of our plant facilities are owned by us with the remainder under long-term lease arrangements. we believe that our plants have been well maintained, are generally in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. 18 table of contents the locations by segment of our major manufacturing facilities at december 31, 2010 were as follows: climate solutions americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific curitiba, brazil kolin, czech republic wujiang, china monterrey, mexico cairo, egypt zhong shan, china arecibo, puerto rico charmes, france shenzen, china fort smith, arkansas golbey, france taicang, china chino, california galway, ireland penang, malaysia pueblo, colorado barcelona, spain tauranga, new zealand lynn haven, florida louisville, georgia macon, georgia suwanee, georgia rushville, indiana lexington, kentucky minneapolis, minnesota bridgeton, missouri hastings, nebraska charlotte, north carolina columbia, south carolina clarksville, tennesse waco, texas la crosse, wisconsin residential solutions americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific ensenada, mexico monterrey, mexico tecate, mexico tijuana, mexico fort smith, arkansas vidalia, georgia trenton, new jersey tyler, texas caracas, venezuela industrial technologies americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific dorvae, canada unicov, czech republic changzhou, china augusta, georgia douai, france guilin, china campbellsville, kentucky wasquehal, france nanjing, china madison heights, michigan oberhausen, germany shanghai, china mocksville, north carolina fogliano redipuglia, italy ahmedabad, india southern pines, north carolina vignate, italy ghaziabad, india west chester, pennsylvania seattle, washington 19 table of contents security technologies americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific ensenada, mexico bricard, france shanghai, china tecate, mexico renchen, germany auckland, new zealand tijuana, mexico faenza, italy security, colorado monsampolo, italy princeton, illinois calatayud, spain indianapolis, indiana duzce, turkey cincinnati, ohio item 3. legal proceedings in the normal course of business, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, including commercial and contract disputes, employment matters, product liability claims, asbestos-related claims, environmental liabilities and intellectual property disputes. in our opinion, pending legal matters are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. oil for food program and foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) matters on november 10, 2004, the securities and exchange commission (sec) issued an order directing that a number of public companies, including the company, provide information relating to their participation in transactions under the united nations oil for food program. upon receipt of the order, we undertook a thorough review of our participation in the oil for food program, provided the sec with information responsive to the order and provided additional information requested by the sec. on october 31, 2007, we announced we had reached settlements with the sec and the department of justice (doj) relating to this matter. under the terms of the settlements, we paid a total of $6.7 million in penalties, interest and disgorgement of profits. we consented to the entry of a civil injunction in the sec action and entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement (dpa) with the doj. the dpa expired on october 31, 2010. under both settlements, we have implemented and will continue to implement improvements to our compliance program that are consistent with our longstanding policy against improper payments. on february 16, 2011, the doj filed a motion to dismiss the oil for food charges against us. in its motion, the doj noted that we fully cooperated with the investigation, and that we had met our obligations regarding improving our compliance policies and procedures relating to the fcpa. additionally, we have reported to the doj and sec certain matters which raise potential issues under the fcpa and other applicable anti-corruption laws, including matters which were reported during the past year. we have conducted, and continue to conduct, investigations and have had preliminary discussions with respect to these matters with the sec and doj, which are ongoing. the sec has sought additional information and documents regarding certain of these and other matters. these matters may be deemed to violate the fcpa and other applicable anti-corruption laws. such determinations could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects, financial position, or the market value of our stock. tax related matters on july 20, 2007, we received a notice from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years. the irs did not contest the validity of our 20 table of contents reincorporation in bermuda. the most significant adjustments proposed by the irs involve treating the entire intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda as equity. as a result of this recharacterization, the irs disallowed the deduction of interest paid on the debt and imposed dividend withholding taxes on the payments denominated as interest. the irs also asserted an alternative argument to be applied if the intercompany debt is respected as debt. in that circumstance, the irs proposed to ignore the entities that hold the debt and to which the interest was paid, and impose 30% withholding tax on a portion of the interest payments as if they were made directly to a company that was not eligible for reduced u.s. withholding tax under a u.s. income tax treaty. the irs asserted under this alternative theory that we owe additional taxes with respect to 2002 of approximately $84 million plus interest. if either of these positions were upheld in their entirety, we would be required to record additional charges. we strongly disagreed with the view of the irs, and filed a protest with the irs in the third quarter of 2007. on january 12, 2010, we received an amended notice from the irs eliminating its assertion that the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda should be treated as equity. however, the irs continues to assert the alternative position described above and proposes adjustments to our 2001 and 2002 tax filings. in addition, the irs provided notice on january 19, 2010, that it is assessing penalties of 30% on the asserted underpayment of tax described above. we have and intend to continue to vigorously contest these proposed adjustments. we, in consultation with our outside advisors, carefully considered the form and substance of our intercompany financing arrangements, including the actions necessary to qualify for the benefits of the applicable u.s. income tax treaties. we believe that these financing arrangements are in accordance with the laws of the relevant jurisdictions including the u.s., that the entities involved should be respected and that the interest payments qualify for the u.s. income tax treaty benefits claimed. although the outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the strength of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for this matter. as we move forward to resolve this matter with the irs, it is reasonably possible that the reserves established may be adjusted. however, we do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or financial position. at this time, the irs has not proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2002. however, if all or a portion of these adjustments proposed by the irs are ultimately sustained, it is likely to also affect subsequent tax years. for a further discussion of tax matters, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos-related matters certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims has been filed against either ingersoll rand company (ir-new jersey) or trane and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters and also note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. 21 table of contents executive officers of the registrant pursuant to the general instruction g(3) of form 10-k, the following list of executive officers of the company as of february 22, 2011 is included as an unnumbered item in part i of this report in lieu of being included in the company proxy statement for its 2011 annual general meeting of shareholders. name and age date of service as an executive officer principal occupation and other information for past five years michael w. lamach (47) 2/16/2004 chairman of the board (since june 2010) and chief executive officer and president (since february 2010); president and chief operating officer (2009-2010); senior vice president and president, trane commercial (2008-2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2004-2008) steven r. shawley (58) 8/1/2005 senior vice president and chief financial officer (since june 2008); senior vice president and president, climate control technologies (2005-2008); president, climate control americas (2003-2005) marcia j. avedon (49) 2/7/2007 senior vice president, human resources and communication (since february 2007); merck &amp; co., inc., senior vice president, human resources (2003-2006) john w. conover iv (56) 7/1/2009 senior vice president and president, security technologies (since july 2009); president, trane commercial systems, americas (2005-2009) william b. gauld (57) 10/2/2006 senior vice president, enterprise services (since october 2006); principal, the w group (2005-2006); pearson, plc, chief information officer (2001-2005) steven b. hochhauser (49) 6/16/2008 senior vice president and president, residential solutions (since july 2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2008-2009); johns manville, chairman, president and chief executive officer (2004-2007) and chief operating officer (2002-2004) robert l. katz (48) 11/1/2010 senior vice president and general counsel (since november 2010); federal- mogul corporation, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary (2007-2010); delphi corporation, general counsel - emea (1999-2006) didier teirlinck (54) 6/4/2008 senior vice president and president, climate solutions (since october 2009); president, climate control technologies (since june 2008); president, climate control europe (2005-2008); president, volvo compact equipment (2000-2005) todd d. wyman (43) 11/16/2009 senior vice president, global operations and integrated supply chain: (since november 2009); ge transportation, vice president, global supply chain (2007-2009); ge transportation, general manager, global supply chain (2003-2007) robert g. zafari (52) 7/1/2010 senior vice president and president, industrial technologies (since july 2010); president, tcs and climate solutions emeia (2009-2010); president, security technologies esa (2007-2008); president, compact vehicle technologies esa (2003-2006) richard j. weller (54) 9/8/2008 vice president and controller (since september 2008); vice president, finance (june-september 2008); vice president, finance, security technologies sector (2005-2008) no family relationship exists between any of the above-listed executive officers of the company. all officers are elected to hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. 22 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities information regarding the principal market for our ordinary shares and related shareholder matters is as follows: our ordinary shares are traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir. as of february 11, 2011, the approximate number of record holders of ordinary shares was 5,150. the high and low sales price per share and the dividend declared per share for the following periods were as follows: ordinary shares 2010 high low dividend first quarter $ 37.51 $ 31.26 $ 0.07 second quarter 40.01 34.49 0.07 third quarter 38.15 32.53 0.07 fourth quarter 47.36 35.91 0.07 2009 high low dividend first quarter $ 20.20 $ 11.46 $ 0.36 second quarter 24.02 13.65 - third quarter 32.95 19.48 0.07 fourth quarter 37.60 28.77 0.07 the bank of new york mellon (bny mellon shareowner services, p.o. box 358015, new york, ny 15252-8015, (800) 507-9357) is our transfer agent and registrar. future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the irish companies act. under the irish companies act, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits of ir-ireland. in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of ir-ireland are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of ir-ireland called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce ir-ireland net assets below such aggregate. information regarding equity compensation plans required to be disclosed pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from our definite proxy statement for the annual general meeting of shareholders. we treat ordinary shares of our parent owned by a subsidiary as treasury stock. these shares are recorded at cost and included in the equity section of the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2007, class a common shares of ir-limited owned by the company amounted to 97.4 million. as a result of the acquisition of trane in june 2008, the company issued 45.4 million ir-limited class a common shares to fund the equity portion of the consideration. in june 2009, ir-limited cancelled the remaining 52.0 million shares in anticipation of the ireland reorganization that became effective on july 1, 2009. 23 table of contents performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our ordinary shares with the cumulative total return on (i) the standard &amp; poor 500 stock index and (ii) the standard &amp; poor 500 industrial index for the five years ended december 31, 2010. the graph assumes an investment of $100 in our ordinary shares, the standard &amp; poor 500 stock index and the standard &amp; poor 500 industrial index on december 31, 2005 and assumes the reinvestment of dividends. 24 table of contents item 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts: at and for the years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 net revenues $ 14,079.1 $ 13,101.8 $ 13,045.0 $ 8,548.1 $ 7,804.2 net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations 758.9 485.1 (2,528.3 ) 765.2 784.5 discontinued operations (116.7 ) (33.8 ) (96.5 ) 3,201.5 248.0 total assets 19,990.9 19,991.0 20,924.5 14,376.2 12,145.9 total debt 3,683.9 4,096.6 5,124.1 1,453.7 1,984.6 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders equity 7,964.3 7,071.8 6,661.4 7,907.9 5,404.8 earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic: continuing operations $ 2.34 $ 1.51 $ (8.41 ) $ 2.63 $ 2.45 discontinued operations (0.36 ) (0.10 ) (0.32 ) 11.01 0.78 diluted: continuing operations $ 2.23 $ 1.47 $ (8.41 ) $ 2.59 $ 2.43 discontinued operations (0.34 ) (0.10 ) (0.32 ) 10.84 0.77 dividends per ordinary share $ 0.28 $ 0.50 $ 0.72 $ 0.72 $ 0.68 1. 2006 amounts have been restated to reflect compact equipment and the road development business unit as discontinued operations. 2009-2006 amounts have been restated to reflect the koxka and energy systems businesses as discontinued operations. 2. 2008 amounts include the results of trane subsequent to the acquisition date (june 5, 2008 through december 31, 2008). 3. 2008 earnings (loss) from continuing operations include an after-tax, non-cash asset impairment charge of $3.4 billion that was recognized in the fourth quarter. 25 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this annual report. overview organization ingersoll-rand plc (ir-ireland), an irish public limited company, and its consolidated subsidiaries (we, our, the company) is a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables, secure homes and commercial properties, and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. our business segments consist of climate solutions, residential solutions, industrial technologies and security technologies, each with strong brands and leading positions within their respective markets. we generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as club car &reg; , hussmann &reg; , ingersoll-rand &reg; , schlage &reg; , thermo king &reg; and trane &reg; . to achieve our mission of becoming a world leader in creating safe, comfortable and efficient environments, as well as to become a more diversified company with strong growth and profitability prospects, we transformed our enterprise portfolio by divesting cyclical, low-growth and asset-intensive businesses. in addition, our acquisition strategy has helped deliver more consistent revenue and earnings performance across all phases of the economic cycle. aside from our portfolio transformation, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream, which includes revenues from parts, service, used equipment and rentals. we also intend to continuously improve the efficiencies, capabilities, products and services of our high-potential businesses. on july 1, 2009, ingersoll-rand company limited (ir-limited), a bermuda company, completed a reorganization to change the jurisdiction of incorporation of the parent company of ingersoll rand from bermuda to ireland (the ireland reorganization). as a result, ir-ireland replaced ir-limited as the ultimate parent company effective july 1, 2009. in conjunction with the ireland reorganization, ir-limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ir-ireland and the class a common shareholders of ir-limited became ordinary shareholders of ir-ireland. all references related to the company prior to july 1, 2009 relate to ir-limited. ireland reorganization on march 5, 2009, our board of directors approved a reorganization of the company that would change the jurisdiction of incorporation of our parent company from bermuda to ireland. the first step in the ireland reorganization was the establishment of ir-limited tax residency in ireland, which occurred in march 2009. subsequently, ir-ireland replaced ir-limited as the ultimate parent company pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under bermuda law. the ireland reorganization was accounted for as a reorganization of entities under common control and accordingly, did not result in any changes to the consolidated amounts of assets, liabilities and equity. as a result of the ireland reorganization, ir-limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ir-ireland and the class a common shareholders of ir-limited became ordinary shareholders of ir-ireland. on july 1, 2009, ir-limited completed the transfer of all the outstanding shares of ingersoll-rand global holding company limited (ir-global) to ingersoll-rand international holding limited (ir-international), another wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of ir-limited incorporated in bermuda, whereupon ir-international assumed the obligations of ir-limited as an issuer or guarantor, as the case may be, under the indentures 26 table of contents governing our outstanding notes, medium-term notes and debentures. ir-ireland and ir-limited also fully and unconditionally guarantee the payment obligations of ir-international, ir-global and ingersoll-rand company, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of ir-limited incorporated in new jersey (ir-new jersey), as the case may be, as the issuers of debt securities under these indentures. neither ir-ireland nor ir-limited has issued or intends to issue guarantees in respect of any public indebtedness incurred by trane. in addition, any securities issued by the company that were convertible, exchangeable or exercisable into class a common shares of ir-limited became convertible, exchangeable or exercisable, as the case may be, into the ordinary shares of ir-ireland. on july 1, 2009, ir-global amended and restated its commercial paper program (the commercial paper program) pursuant to which ir-global may issue, on a private placement basis, unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $2.25 billion. the maximum aggregate amount under the program was reduced to $2.00 billion in november 2010 following the reduction in our available credit facilities in may 2010. under the commercial paper program, ir-global may issue notes from time to time, and the proceeds of the financing will be used for general corporate purposes. each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international has provided an irrevocable and unconditional guarantee for the notes issued under the commercial paper program. the company had two credit facilities outstanding as of july 1, 2009. pursuant to the terms of these credit facilities, which were entered into on august 12, 2005 and june 27, 2008, ir-ireland and ir-international became guarantors to such credit facilities on july 1, 2009. in connection therewith, ir-ireland and ir-international entered into addendums on july 1, 2009 to become parties to these credit facilities. in may 2010, the 5-year $1.25 billion credit facility entered into on august 12, 2005 was replaced by a 3-year $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility. each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international has provided an irrevocable and unconditional guarantee for the may 2010 credit facility. in connection with the ireland reorganization, effective as of july 1, 2009, ir-ireland assumed the existing obligations of ir-limited under the equity incentive plans and other similar employee award plans of ingersoll rand (collectively, the plans), including all awards issued thereunder. furthermore, the plans have been amended to provide (1) that ordinary shares of ir-ireland will be issued, held available or used to measure benefits as appropriate under the plans, in lieu of shares of ir-limited, including upon exercise of any options or share appreciation rights or upon the vesting of restricted stock units or performance units issued under those plans; and (2) for the appropriate substitution of ir-ireland for ir-limited in those plans. the ireland reorganization did not have a material impact on our financial results. ingersoll-rand plc continues to be subject to united states securities and exchange commission reporting requirements and prepares financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). shares of ingersoll-rand plc continue to trade on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir , the same symbol under which the ingersoll-rand company limited class a common shares previously traded. trends and economic events we are a global corporation with worldwide operations. as a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors, as well as political factors, wherever we operate or do business. our geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of our product sales and services, has helped limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. since the onset of the economic downturn in 2008, we have seen weaker demand for many of our products and services across each of our businesses. consumers and businesses have reduced spending and investment. as a result of the reduced end-market activity, we initiated restructuring actions at the end of 2008 targeted at streamlining the footprint of manufacturing facilities and reducing the general and administrative cost base across all of our businesses. given the broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the company. we monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge 27 table of contents relative performance and the outlook for the future. in addition, our order rates are indicative of future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. in those industry segments where we are a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. during 2010, current market conditions continued to impact our financial results. the u.s. and european non-residential construction markets remain weak. however, we experienced modest volume growth in some of our other major end markets. as economic conditions continue to stabilize, we expect this modest revenue growth to continue along with the continued benefits of restructuring savings and productivity programs. despite the current market environment, we have a solid foundation of global brands and leading market shares in all of our major product lines. our growing geographic and industry diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service, parts and replacement revenue streams. in addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which will fuel our future growth. acquisition of trane at the close of business on june 5, 2008 (the acquisition date), we completed the acquisition of 100% of the outstanding common shares of trane inc. (trane). trane, previously named american standard companies inc., provides systems and services that enhance the quality and comfort of the air in homes and buildings around the world. trane systems and services have leading positions in premium commercial, residential, institutional and industrial markets, a reputation for reliability, high quality and product innovation and a powerful distribution network. trane 2007 annual revenues were $7.5 billion. we paid a combination of (i) 0.23 of an ir-limited class a common share and (ii) $36.50 in cash, without interest, for each outstanding share of trane common stock. the total cost of the acquisition was approximately $9.6 billion, including change in control payments and direct costs of the transaction. we financed the cash portion of the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand, commercial paper and a 364-day senior unsecured bridge loan facility. the components of the purchase price were as follows: in billions cash consideration $ 7.3 stock consideration (issuance of 45.4 million ir-limited class a common shares) 2.0 estimated fair value of trane stock options converted to 7.4 million ir-limited stock options 0.2 transaction costs 0.1 total $ 9.6 as a result of the acquisition, the results of the operations of trane have been included in the statement of financial position at december 31, 2010 and 2009 and the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the full years of 2010 and 2009, and since the acquisition date in 2008. for further details on the acquisition of trane, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. significant events in 2010 business divestitures on december 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the energy systems brand, to flex energy, llc. the business, which was previously reported as part of the industrial technologies segment, designs, manufactures, markets, distributes, and services gas powered microturbine generators which feature energy efficient design and low emissions technology. as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation and have classified the assets and liabilities as held for sale for all periods presented. 28 table of contents on october 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our european refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the koxka brand, to an affiliate of american industrial acquisition corporation (aiac group). the business, which was previously reported as part of the climate solutions segment, designs, manufactures and markets commercial refrigeration equipment through sales branches and a network of distributors throughout europe, africa and the middle east. koxka had two manufacturing facilities in spain and employed 445 people. as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation and have classified the assets and liabilities as held for sale for all periods presented. healthcare reform in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act (the act) and the healthcare and education reconciliation bill of 2010 (together with the act, the healthcare reform legislation) was signed into law. as a result, effective 2013, the tax benefits available to us will be reduced to the extent our prescription drug expenses are reimbursed under the medicare part d retiree drug subsidy program. although the provisions of the healthcare reform legislation relating to the retiree drug subsidy program do not take effect until 2013, we are required to recognize the full accounting impact in our financial statements in the reporting period in which the healthcare reform legislation is enacted. as retiree healthcare liabilities and related tax impacts are already reflected in our financial statements, the healthcare reform legislation resulted in a non-cash charge to income tax expense in the first quarter of 2010 of $40.5 million. currently, our retiree medical plans receive the retiree drug subsidy under medicare part d. no later than 2014, a significant portion of the drug coverage will be moved to an employer group waiver plan while retaining the same benefit provisions. this change resulted in an actuarial gain which decreased our december 31, 2010 retiree medical plan liability, as well as the net actuarial losses in other comprehensive income by $41.1 million. at this time, there were no other changes to our liabilities as a result of the healthcare reform legislation. we will continue to monitor healthcare reform legislation to review provisions which could impact our accounting for retiree medical benefits in future periods. we may consider future plan amendments, which may have accounting implications as further regulations are promulgated and interpretations of the legislation become available. the healthcare reform legislation could also impact our accounting for income taxes in future periods. we will continue to assess the accounting implications of the healthcare reform legislation. venezuela devaluation during the fourth quarter of 2009, the blended consumer price index/national consumer price index of venezuela reached a cumulative three-year inflation rate in excess of 100%. as a result, venezuela was designated as highly inflationary effective january 1, 2010. accordingly, the u.s. dollar was determined to be the functional currency of our venezuelan subsidiaries and all foreign currency fluctuations during 2010 have been recorded in income. at december 31, 2009, we remeasured our foreign currency receivables and payables associated with the venezuelan bolivar at the parallel rate of 6.0 bolivars for each u.s. dollar. this was based on our inability to settle certain transactions through the official government channels in an expeditious manner. previously, we remeasured all foreign currency transactions at the official rate of 2.15 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as a result, we recorded a $24 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2009 associated with the devaluation. on may 17, 2010, the government of venezuela effectively closed down the parallel market claiming it was a significant cause of inflation in venezuela. on june 9, 2010, a new parallel market (sitme) opened under control of the central bank and the company has utilized it for currency exchange, subject to any limitations under local regulations. at december 31, 2010, we continue to utilize the sitme rate for re-measurement purposes. 29 table of contents significant events in 2009 in the fourth quarter of 2009, we realigned our external reporting structure to more closely reflect our corporate and business strategies and to promote additional productivity and growth. our segments are now as follows: climate solutions, residential solutions, industrial technologies and security technologies. as part of the change, we eliminated the air conditioning systems and services segment which represented the acquired trane business and created two new reportable segments, the climate solutions segment and the residential solutions segment. during 2009, we completed a comprehensive financing program that significantly enhanced our liquidity and debt profile. significant actions included the repayment of the outstanding balance of our senior unsecured bridge loan facility with the proceeds from the issuance of $1.0 billion of long-term debt (senior notes and exchangeable senior notes) and the expansion of our trane accounts receivable purchase program to encompass originators from all four of our business segments. in addition, we reduced our quarterly stock dividend from $0.18 per share to $0.07 per share, effective with our september 2009 payment. on february 17, 2010, we terminated the expanded accounts receivable purchase program prior to its expiration in march 2010. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we initiated enterprise-wide restructuring actions in order to streamline both our manufacturing footprint and our general and administrative cost base. we incurred approximately $109.6 million of costs associated with this program during 2009. these combined restructuring actions generated approximately $155 million of annual pretax savings for 2010. we continue to invest in ongoing restructuring activities in an effort to increase efficiencies across all of our businesses. significant events in 2008 as discussed in acquisition of trane above, on june 5, 2008, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of trane for approximately $9.6 billion. in august 2008, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the securities and exchange commission (sec) for an indeterminate amount of securities for future issuance and issued $1.6 billion of long-term debt pursuant to the shelf registration statement. approximately, $1.4 billion remains outstanding as of december 31, 2010 as the company repaid $250 million as it became due during 2010. the remaining balance consists of $600 million 6.000% senior notes due in 2013 and $750 million 6.875% senior notes due in 2018. these notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ir-limited, which directly owns 100% of the subsidiary issuer, ir-global. the net proceeds from the offering were used to partially reduce the amount outstanding under the senior unsecured bridge loan facility, which had a balance of $754 million at december 31, 2008. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we tested goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. as a result of decreased global equity valuations, the tightening of industrial and retail end markets and a resulting decline in our 2009 projected financial performance, we incurred a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $3,710.0 million, $3,385.0 million after-tax. 30 table of contents results of operations dollar amounts in millions, except per share data 2010 % of revenues 2009 % of revenues 2008 % of revenues net revenues $ 14,079.1 $ 13,101.8 $ 13,045.0 cost of goods sold (10,158.5 ) 72.1 % (9,542.2 ) 72.8 % (9,547.5 ) 73.2 % selling and administrative expenses (2,673.1 ) 19.0 % (2,687.3 ) 20.5 % (2,308.9 ) 17.7 % asset impairment - - (3,710.0 ) operating income (loss) 1,247.5 8.9 % 872.3 6.7 % (2,521.4 ) -19.3 % interest expense (283.2 ) (301.6 ) (243.2 ) other, net 42.3 18.7 63.9 earnings (loss) before income taxes 1,006.6 589.4 (2,700.7 ) (provision) benefit for income taxes (224.8 ) (79.6 ) 192.3 earnings (loss) from continuing operations 781.8 509.8 (2,508.4 ) discontinued operations, net of tax (116.7 ) (33.6 ) (96.4 ) net earnings (loss) 665.1 476.2 (2,604.8 ) less: net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (22.9 ) (24.9 ) (20.0 ) net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc $ 642.2 $ 451.3 $ (2,624.8 ) diluted net earnings (loss) per ordinary share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations $ 2.23 $ 1.47 $ (8.41 ) discontinued operations (0.34 ) (0.10 ) (0.32 ) net earnings (loss) $ 1.89 $ 1.37 $ (8.73 ) net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 7.5%, or $977.3 million, compared with the same period of 2009, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 7.4% pricing 0.2% currency exchange rates 0.3% devaluation of venezuelan bolivar -0.5% acquisitions 0.1% total 7.5% the increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher volumes experienced within the climate solutions, residential solutions, and industrial technologies business segments, as well as favorable foreign currency impacts. however, the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar had a $70.0 million impact on reported revenues during 2010. net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by 0.4%, or $56.8 million, compared with the same period of 2008, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix -15.1 % pricing 0.8 % currency exchange rates -1.4 % acquisitions 16.1 % total 0.4 % 31 table of contents the acquisition of trane increased net revenues by $2,096.3 million compared with the same period of 2008. the increase, which contributed 16.1% to the year-over-year change in revenues, was a consequence of 2008 reported results only reflecting activity since the acquisition date. excluding the results of trane, revenues decreased by $2,039.5 million, which had a 15.7% effect on total company revenues. this decrease resulted from lower volumes and product mix (15%) and an unfavorable currency impact (1%). these reductions were partially offset by improved pricing (1%). the trane commercial and residential hvac businesses also experienced substantial volume declines during the year. cost of goods sold for the year ended december 31, 2010, cost of goods sold increased by $616.3 million, or 6.5% compared to the same period in 2009. the increase was primarily due to higher volumes, increases in material and other costs and unfavorable foreign currency impacts. however, these costs were partially offset by productivity actions and restructuring programs implemented during 2009. these actions helped to mitigate the impact of the depressed economic climate in several of our major end markets. as a result, cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue decreased to 72.1% from 72.8%. in addition, restructuring costs had a 0.2 point and 0.4 point impact on cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively. for the year ended december 31, 2009, cost of goods sold decreased by $5.3 million, or 0.1% compared to the same period in 2008, which included the results of trane since the acquisition date. trane increased cost of goods sold by $1,421.8 million, which contributed 14.8% to the year-over-year change. excluding the results of trane, cost of goods sold decreased by $1,427.1 million, which had a 14.9% effect on total company cost of goods sold. this decrease was a result of increased productivity actions and expense reduction across the businesses, and lower volumes due to the continued global weakness in our major end markets. cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue decreased to 72.8% from 73.2%. in addition, cost of goods sold included $56.9 million of restructuring costs compared to restructuring and integration costs of $40.0 million in 2008. selling and administrative expenses for the year ended december 31, 2010, selling and administrative expense decreased by $14.2 million, or 0.5% compared to the same period in 2009. the decrease was primarily due to benefits from productivity actions and restructuring programs implemented during 2009. these actions helped to mitigate the impact of the depressed economic climate in several of our major end markets. as a result, selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue decreased to 19.0% from 20.5% in 2009. in addition, restructuring costs had a 0.1 point and 0.4 point impact on selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively. for the year ended december 31, 2009, selling and administrative expense increased by $378.4 million, or 16.4% compared to the same period in 2008, which included the results of trane since the acquisition date. trane increased selling and administrative expenses by $558.5 million, which contributed 24.2% to the year-over-year change. excluding the results of trane, selling and administrative expense decreased by $180.1 million, or 7.8% as a result of increased productivity actions and expense reduction across the businesses. as a result of the dramatic decline in volume experienced during 2009 and the resulting reduction in revenue, selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue increased to 20.5% compared with 17.7% for the same period of 2008. in addition, selling and administrative expense included $52.7 million of restructuring costs compared to $30.3 million of restructuring and integration costs in 2008. asset impairment during the fourth quarter of 2008, we tested goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. as a result of decreased global equity valuations, the tightening of industrial and retail end markets and a resulting decline in our 2009 projected financial performance, we incurred a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $3,710.0 million, $3,385.0 million after-tax. 32 table of contents the following table summarizes the impairment charges that were taken by segment during 2008: in millions goodwill intangible assets marketable securities total climate solutions $ 839.8 $ 400.0 $ - $ 1,239.8 residential solutions 1,656.2 454.0 - 2,110.2 security technologies 344.0 6.0 10.0 360.0 total $ 2,840.0 $ 860.0 $ 10.0 $ 3,710.0 for a further discussion of impairment-related matters, see goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets under critical accounting policies and notes 5, 8 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements. operating margin operating margin for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased to 8.9% from 6.7% for the same period in 2009. the benefit of higher volumes, productivity actions and restructuring programs more than offset the negative effect of increased material and other costs. also, included in operating income was $45.3 million of charges associated with ongoing restructuring actions compared to $109.6 million recorded in 2009. these costs had a 0.3 point and 0.8 point impact on operating margin in 2010 and 2009, respectively. operating margin for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased to 6.7% from a negative 19.3% for the same period in 2008, which included the results of trane since the acquisition date. operating margin for the year ended december 31, 2008 was impacted by a non-cash charge of $3,710.0 million related to an asset impairment recognized in the fourth quarter. excluding the asset impairment, which had a 28.4 point impact on 2008 operating margins, year-over-year operating margins decreased by 2.4 points. the primary drivers of the decrease related to lower volumes, an unfavorable currency impact and lower margins in the acquired trane businesses. results were further impacted by $109.6 million of restructuring costs which impacted operating margins in 2009 by 0.8 points. productivity actions, expense reduction and improved pricing helped to mitigate the impact of the continued global weakness in our major end markets. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2010 decreased $18.4 million compared with the same period of 2009 as a result of lower average debt balances in 2010. interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased $58.4 million compared with the same period of 2008. the increase is primarily related to higher average debt levels as a result of the funding of the acquisition of trane in june 2008. other, net the year-over-year changes in other, net primarily resulted from the following: in millions 2010 2009 2008 interest income $ 15.2 $ 12.6 $ 95.1 exchange gain (loss) 0.9 (36.2 ) (41.1 ) earnings from equity investments 11.5 8.0 3.4 other 14.7 34.3 6.5 other, net $ 42.3 $ 18.7 $ 63.9 for the year ended december 31, 2010, other, net increased by $23.6 million compared with the same period of 2009. the increase was primarily driven by lower currency losses, which partially resulted from a $24 million charge recorded in 2009 associated with the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar. the increase was partially 33 table of contents offset by $25 million of income recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily related to a favorable settlement with an insurance carrier associated with a portion of our asbestos obligation. the settlement is included in other in the table above. for the year ended december 31, 2009, other, net decreased by $45.2 million compared with the same period of 2008. the decrease was primarily related to lower interest income as a result of lower average cash balances during the year. the decrease was partially offset by income of approximately $25 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily related to a favorable settlement with an insurance carrier associated with a portion of our asbestos obligation. the settlement is included in other in the table above. included in exchange gain (loss) in 2009 is a $24 million charge associated with the devaluation in the venezuelan bolivar. at december 31, 2009, we remeasured our foreign currency receivables and payables associated with the venezuelan bolivar at the parallel rate of 6.0 bolivars for each u.s. dollar. this was based on our inability to settle certain transactions through the official government channels in an expeditious manner. previously, we remeasured all foreign currency transactions at the official rate of 2.15 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. provision for income taxes for the year ended december 31, 2010, the effective tax rate was 22.3% compared to 13.5% in 2009. the 2010 tax rate was below the u.s. statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which, in aggregate, have a lower effective rate. the 8.8 point increase in the effective rate is primarily the result of a $40.5 million non-cash charge to income tax expense related to the healthcare reform legislation as well as changes in geographical mix of earnings, offset by net changes in our valuation allowances. for the year ended december 31, 2009, the effective tax rate was 13.5% compared to 7.1% in 2008. the 2009 tax rate was below the u.s. statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which, in aggregate, have a lower effective rate. the 6.4 point increase in the effective rate is primarily the result of an increase in valuation allowances as well as changes in earnings mix offset by a reduction in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of tax matters. review of business segments the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each segment included in continuing operations. climate solutions our climate solutions segment delivers energy-efficient refrigeration and heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) solutions throughout the world. encompassing the transport and stationary refrigeration markets as well as the commercial hvac markets, this segment offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions to manage controlled temperature environments. this segment includes the market-leading brands of hussmann, thermo king and trane. on october 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our european refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the koxka brand, to an affiliate of american industrial acquisition corporation (aiac group). the business, which was previously reported as part of the climate solutions segment, designs, manufactures and markets commercial refrigeration equipment through sales branches and a network of distributors throughout europe, africa and the middle east. koxka had two manufacturing facilities in spain and employed 445 people. segment information has been revised to exclude the results of this business for all periods presented. 34 table of contents reported results include revenue and operating income from the trane commercial hvac business for the six months and 25 days since the acquisition of trane in 2008 and for the full year in 2009 and 2010. dollar amounts in millions 2010 % change 2009 % change 2008 net revenues $ 7,800.8 8.2% $ 7,211.2 9.6% $ 6,582.0 operating income (loss) 598.2 38.8% 430.9 n/a (726.7 ) * operating margin 7.7% 6.0% -11.0% * amount includes a non-cash impairment charge of $1,240 million. 2010 vs 2009 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 8.2% or $589.6 million, compared with the same period of 2009, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 7.5% pricing 0.1% currency exchange rates 0.7% devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar -0.3% acquisitions 0.2% total 8.2% trane commercial hvac revenues continue to be impacted by declining activity in non-residential construction markets, which has affected our commercial hvac revenues in all geographic areas, except asia. both equipment and systems revenue were impacted by the decrease in end-market activity. however, increased revenue for parts, services and solutions helped to mitigate these declines. net revenues in our transport and stationary refrigeration businesses experienced strong improvements in all geographic areas due to the refrigerated trailer and truck markets. in addition, sea-going container revenues and worldwide bus revenues have begun to improve due to an increase in end-market activity. worldwide display cases and contracting revenue also increased due to recovering supermarket capital expenditures. operating income for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 38.8%, or $167.3 million, compared with the same period of 2009. the increase, which improved operating margins to 7.7% from 6.0%, was primarily related to improved productivity actions ($280 million) as well as higher volumes and product mix ($178 million). however, the benefits resulting from these improvements were partially offset by increases in material and other costs ($266 million). included in 2010 operating income was $23.7 million of charges associated with ongoing restructuring actions, which had a 0.3 point impact on operating margins. the comparable amount recorded in 2009 was $35.9 million, which had a 0.5 point impact on operating margins. 2009 vs 2008 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by 9.6% or $629.2 million, compared with the same period of 2008, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix -13.0% pricing 0.5% currency exchange rates -1.0% acquisitions 23.1% total 9.6% net revenues in the trane commercial hvac business increased $1,522.2 million compared with the same period of 2008. the increase, which represented 23.1% of the segment year-over-year increase, was a consequence of 2008 reported results only reflecting activity since the acquisition date. 35 table of contents net revenues in the transport and stationary refrigeration business decreased 28.0%, or $893.0 million, compared with the same period of 2008. the decrease, which had a 13.5% impact on the segment year-over-year results, was primarily due to lower volumes and product mix (13%) and an unfavorable currency impact (1%). these reductions were slightly offset by improved pricing (1%). trane commercial hvac revenues were impacted by a continued decline in activity in non-residential construction markets in all major geographic areas, except asia. both equipment and service revenue, as well as parts, services and solutions were impacted by the decrease in end-market activity. net revenues in our transport and stationary refrigeration businesses decreased primarily as a result of the continued decline in the heavy truck market in europe. however, improved activity in the u.s. and asian refrigerated trailer and truck markets during the fourth quarter helped to mitigate the declines in europe. in addition, sea-going container revenues and worldwide bus revenues began to improve in the fourth quarter due to an increase in end market activity. worldwide display cases and contracting revenue were impacted by continued slower supermarket capital expenditures in both the u.s. and europe. operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by $1,157.6 million, compared with the same period of 2008. this increase was a result of a non-cash charge of $1,240 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to the impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. excluding the impairment, which had an 18.8 point impact on 2008 operating margins, year-over-year operating income decreased 16.1% or $82.4 million. excluding the asset impairment charge of $1,200 million in 2008, operating income in the trane commercial hvac business increased $101.7 million compared with the same period in 2008, which only included the results of trane for the six months and 25 days since the acquisition date. this increase had a 19.8% impact to segment operating income. the trane commercial hvac business was negatively impacted by a significant reduction in volumes and pricing, which was partially offset by increased productivity and improved material costs. included in 2009 operating income within the trane commercial hvac business was $97.3 million of ongoing purchase accounting charges primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. in addition, we recorded $26.1 million of restructuring charges in 2009 associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. these costs had a combined 1.7 point impact on the segment 2009 operating margins. 2008 comparable amounts were $48.1 million related to ongoing purchase accounting costs and $14.6 million related to severance and other business integration costs. in addition, 2008 operating income included $147.4 million in non-recurring purchase accounting charges associated with the fair value allocation of purchase price to backlog, inventory and in-process research and development costs. these costs had a combined 3.2 point impact on the segment 2008 operating margins. operating income in our transport and stationary refrigeration business decreased by 50.6%, or $184.1 million, compared with the same period of 2008, excluding the $40 million asset impairment charge in 2008. this decrease, which had a 35.9% impact on segment operating income, resulted from lower volumes and product mix ($297 million) and an unfavorable currency impact. this decrease was partially offset by increased productivity ($116 million) and improved pricing ($34 million). in addition, we recorded $9.8 million and $14.9 million of restructuring charges in 2009 and 2008, respectively, associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. residential solutions our residential solutions segment provides safety, comfort and efficiency to homeowners throughout north america and parts of south america. it offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions including mechanical and electronic locks, energy-efficient hvac systems, indoor air quality solutions, advanced controls, portable security systems and remote home management. this segment is comprised of well-known brands like american standard, schlage and trane. 36 table of contents reported results include revenue and operating income from the trane residential hvac business for the six months and 25 days since the acquisition of trane in 2008 and for the full year in 2009 and 2010. dollar amounts in millions 2010 % change 2009 % change 2008 net revenues $ 2,121.7 6.0% $ 2,001.5 35.8% $ 1,473.7 operating income (loss) 181.6 47.8% 122.9 n/a (2,037.0 ) * operating margin 8.6% 6.1% -138.2% * amount includes a non-cash impairment charge of $2,110 million. 2010 vs. 2009 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 6.0% or $120.2 million, compared with the same period of 2009, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 9.2% pricing -0.7% devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar -2.5% total 6.0% trane residential hvac revenues were impacted by continued weakness in the u.s. new residential construction market. however, improved sales to the replacement market more than offset the effect of the new construction market. excluding the impact of the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar, revenues in the residential security business increased primarily as a result of improving remodeling markets and an increase in end-market activity in the u.s. new builder channel. operating income for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 47.8%, or $58.7 million, compared with the same period of 2009. the increase, which improved operating margins to 8.6% from 6.1%, was primarily related to improved productivity actions ($97 million) and higher volumes and product mix ($43 million). however, the benefits resulting from these improvements were partially offset by increased material and other costs ($50 million) and unfavorable pricing ($15 million). in addition, the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar negatively impacted year-over-year results by $18.0 million. 2009 vs. 2008 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by 35.8% or $527.8 million, compared with the same period of 2008, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix -3.8% pricing 0.6% acquisition of trane residential hvac business 39.0% total 35.8% net revenues in the trane residential hvac business increased $574.1 million compared with the same period of 2008. the increase, which represented 39.0% of the segment year-over-year increase, was a consequence of 2008 reported results only reflecting activity since the acquisition date. net revenues for the trane residential hvac business for the year ended december 31, 2009 were impacted by lower volumes and reduced pricing. net revenues in the residential security business decreased by 9.9%, or $46.3 million, compared with the same period of 2008. the decrease, which had a 3.2% impact on the segment year-over-year results, was primarily due to lower volumes and product mix (4%). these reductions were slightly offset by improved pricing (1%). trane residential hvac revenues were impacted by continued weakness in the u.s. housing market. however, improved fourth quarter sales to the replacement market helped to mitigate the slower end market activity. residential security revenues were impacted by lower same store sales at large customers and ongoing weakness 37 table of contents in the new homebuilder channel. in the fourth quarter, these declines were more than offset by new product revenues and market share gains. operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by $2,159.9 million, compared with the same period of 2008. this increase was a result of a non-cash charge of $2,110 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to the impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets within the trane residential hvac business. excluding the impairment, which had a 143.2 point impact on 2008 operating margins, year-over-year operating income increased by 68.4% or $49.9 million. excluding the asset impairment charge in 2008, operating income in the trane residential hvac business increased $43.1 million compared with the same period in 2008, which included the results of trane for the six months and 25 days since the acquisition date. this increase had a 59.0% impact to segment operating income, excluding impairment. the trane residential hvac business was impacted by a reduction in volumes and pricing, which was offset by increased productivity and improved material costs. included in 2009 operating income for the trane residential hvac business was $80.6 million of ongoing purchase accounting charges primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. in addition, we recorded $7.5 million of restructuring charges in 2009 associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. these costs had a combined 4.4 point impact on the segment 2009 operating margins. 2008 comparable amounts were $33.0 million related to ongoing purchase accounting costs and $5.6 million related to severance and other business integration costs. in addition, 2008 operating income included $11.0 million in non-recurring purchase accounting charges associated with the fair value allocation of purchase price to backlog, inventory and in-process research and development costs. these costs had a combined 3.4 point impact on the segment 2008 operating margins. operating income in our residential security business increased by 11.7%, or $6.8 million, compared with the same period of 2008. this increase, which had a 9.3% impact on segment operating income, resulted from increased productivity ($18 million) and improved pricing ($10 million). this increase was partially offset by lower volumes and product mix ($16 million). in addition, we recorded $1.4 million and $6.3 million of restructuring charges in 2009 and 2008, respectively, associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. industrial technologies our industrial technologies segment provides products, services and solutions that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. it offers our global customers a diverse and innovative range of products including compressed air systems, tools, pumps, fluid handling systems, as well as golf, utility, and rough terrain vehicles. it also includes a diverse range of service offerings including full coverage and preventative maintenance service contracts, service parts, installation, and remanufactured compressors and tools. this segment includes the club car, ingersoll rand, and aro market-leading brands. on december 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the energy systems brand, to flex energy, llc. the business, which was previously reported as part of the industrial technologies segment, designs, manufactures, markets, distributes, and services gas powered microturbine generators which feature energy efficient design and low emissions technology. segment information has been revised to exclude the results of this business for all periods presented. dollar amounts in millions 2010 % change 2009 % change 2008 net revenues $ 2,485.2 14.5% $ 2,170.0 -25.8% $ 2,924.5 operating income 310.4 73.9% 178.5 -50.6% 361.0 operating margin 12.5% 8.2% 12.3% 38 table of contents 2010 vs 2009 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 14.5% or $315.2 million, compared with the same period of 2009, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 13.6% pricing 1.1% currency exchange rates -0.2% total 14.5% air and productivity revenues outside of the u.s. increased as improved aftermarket activity in asia was partially offset by weaker markets in europe. u.s. markets increased as the equipment market continues to improve. club car revenues increased as a result of improving golf markets. operating income increased by 73.9% or $131.9 million during 2010. the increase, which improved operating margins to 12.5% from 8.2% was primarily related to improved productivity actions ($104 million), higher volumes and product mix ($91 million), and favorable pricing ($23 million). however, these improvements were partially offset by increased material and other costs ($68 million). included in 2010 operating income was $17.9 million of charges associated with ongoing restructuring actions, which had a 0.7 point impact on operating margins. the comparable amount recorded in 2009 was $27.1 million, which had a 1.2 point impact on 2009 operating margins. 2009 vs 2008 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 decreased by 25.8% or $754.5 million, compared with the same period of 2008, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix -24.5% pricing 0.5% currency exchange rates -1.8% total -25.8% revenues in the air and productivity solutions business declined in all geographic areas. the decrease in the u.s. was a result of volume declines in major industrial, process and fluid handling end markets as well as lower aftermarket results. non-u.s. revenues were also impacted by volume declines in industrial activity. club car revenues sharply decreased in all geographic areas due to weakening economic fundamentals in key golf, hospitality and recreation markets. in addition, the decline was impacted by customers deferring golf car replacement by extending their leases. market share gains and growth in low-speed vehicle sales at club car helped to offset some of the slow end market activity. operating income decreased by 50.6% or $182.5 million during 2009. during 2009, we recorded $27.1 million of restructuring charges associated with employee termination benefits and other cost associated with announced restructuring plans, which had a 1.2 point impact on operating margins. the remaining decrease was primarily related to lower volumes and product mix ($263 million), an unfavorable currency impact ($20 million) and higher material costs ($17 million). these reductions were partially offset by increased productivity ($122 million) and improved pricing ($16 million). 39 table of contents security technologies our security technologies segment is a leading global provider of products and services that make environments safe, secure and productive. the segment market-leading products include electronic and biometric access control systems and software, locks and locksets, door closers, exit devices, steel doors and frames, portable security devices, as well as time, attendance and personnel scheduling systems. these products serve a wide range of markets including the commercial construction market, healthcare, retail, maritime and transport industries as well as educational and governmental facilities. this segment includes the cisa, lcn, schlage and von duprin brands. dollar amounts in millions 2010 % change 2009 % change 2008 net revenues $ 1,671.4 -2.8% $ 1,719.1 -16.7% $ 2,064.8 operating income 323.9 0.1% 323.7 663.4% 42.4 * operating margin 19.4% 18.8% 2.1% *amount includes a non-cash impairment charge of $360 million. 2010 vs 2009 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 decreased by 2.8% or $47.7 million, compared with the same period of 2009, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix -3.2% pricing 0.8% currency exchange rates -0.4% total -2.8% the decline in worldwide commercial building and remodeling markets continue to impact segment revenues, especially in the united states. slight improvement in europe and modest volume increases in asia helped mitigate continued weakness in the united states. operating income for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 0.1% or $0.2 million, compared with the same period of 2009. operating margins improved to 19.4% from 18.8%. the segment operating results benefitted from improved productivity actions ($79 million) and a reduction in restructuring activities in 2010. included in 2010 operating income was $3.1 million of charges associated with ongoing restructuring actions, which had a 0.2 point impact on operating margins. the comparable amount recorded in 2009 was $24.5 million, which had a 1.4 point impact on 2009 operating margins. these improvements were offset by a reduction in volumes and product mix ($46 million) and increases in material and other costs ($38 million). 2009 vs 2008 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 decreased by 16.7% or $345.7 million, compared with the same period of 2008, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix -16.5% pricing -2.5% currency exchange rates 2.2% other 0.1% total -16.7% the decrease in net revenues was a result of the decline in the worldwide contracting of construction markets. revenues were impacted by the decline in new building and remodeling markets in the united states and europe. operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 increased by 663.4% or $281.3 million, compared with the same period of 2008. this increase was a result of a non-cash charge of $360 million recognized in the 40 table of contents fourth quarter of 2008 related to the impairment of goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and marketable securities within the segment. the charge had a 17.4 point impact on 2008 operating margins. excluding the asset impairment charge, operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 decreased by 19.6% or $78.7 million, compared with the same period in 2008. the decrease was primarily a result of lower volumes and product mix ($179 million) and an unfavorable currency impact ($14 million). these reductions were partially offset by increased productivity ($75 million), improved pricing ($46 million) and lower material costs ($15 million). we also recorded $24.5 million and $6.8 million of restructuring charges in 2009 and 2008, respectively, associated with employee termination benefits and other costs associated with announced restructuring plans. discontinued operations the components of discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2010 2009 2008 revenues $ 65.6 $ 93.4 $ 197.6 pre-tax earnings (loss) from operations (169.3 ) (90.7 ) (105.7 ) pre-tax gain (loss) on sale (5.4 ) (28.6 ) (5.2 ) tax benefit (expense) 58.0 85.7 14.5 discontinued operations, net $ (116.7 ) $ (33.6 ) $ (96.4 ) during 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of $22 million primarily associated with reducing our liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and a tax charge of $29 million associated with correcting immaterial accounting errors. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a further description of these tax matters. discontinued operations by business for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2010 2009 2008 energy systems, net of tax $ (17.6 ) $ (4.3 ) $ (4.6 ) koxka business, net of tax (54.0 ) (17.7 ) (34.4 ) compact equipment, net of tax (2.7 ) (30.6 ) (11.7 ) road development, net of tax (0.2 ) 9.0 (29.8 ) other discontinued operations, net of tax (42.2 ) 10.0 (15.9 ) total discontinued operations, net of tax $ (116.7 ) $ (33.6 ) $ (96.4 ) energy systems divestiture on december 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the energy systems brand, to flex energy, llc. the business, which was previously reported as part of the industrial technologies segment, designs, manufactures, markets, distributes, and services gas powered microturbine generators which feature energy efficient design and low emissions technology. the planned divestiture met both the component and held for sale criteria in accordance with gaap during the third quarter of 2010. therefore, we reported this business as a discontinued operation and classified the assets and liabilities as held for sale for all periods presented. during 2010, the company recognized an $8.3 million after-tax impairment loss within discontinued operations related to the write-down of the net assets to their estimated fair value. 41 table of contents net revenues and after-tax earnings of the energy systems business for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2010 2009 2008 net revenues $ 8.9 $ 10.9 $ 13.7 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ (14.4 ) * $ (4.3 ) $ (4.6 ) gain (loss) on sale, net of tax (3.2 ) - - total discontinued operations, net of tax $ (17.6 ) $ (4.3 ) $ (4.6 ) * included in 2010 is an after-tax impairment loss of $8.3 million recorded within discontinued operations. the components of assets and liabilities recorded as held for sale on the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2009 are as follows: in millions december 31, 2009 assets current assets $ 7.7 property, plant and equipment, net 6.1 other assets and deferred income taxes - assets held for sale $ 13.8 liabilities current liabilities $ 0.5 noncurrent liabilities - liabilities held for sale $ 0.5 koxka divestiture on october 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our european refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the koxka brand, to an affiliate of american industrial acquisition corporation (aiac group). the business, which was previously reported as part of the climate solutions segment, designs, manufactures and markets commercial refrigeration equipment through sales branches and a network of distributors throughout europe, africa and the middle east. koxka had two manufacturing facilities in spain and employed 445 people. the planned divestiture met both the component and held for sale criteria in accordance with gaap during the second quarter of 2010. therefore, we reported this business as a discontinued operation and classified the assets and liabilities as held for sale for all periods presented. during 2010, we recognized a $53.9 million after-tax impairment loss within discontinued operations related to the write-down of the net assets to their estimated fair value. net revenues and after-tax earnings of the koxka business for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2010 2009 2008 net revenues $ 56.7 $ 82.5 $ 168.6 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ (53.1 ) * $ (17.7 ) $ (34.4) gain (loss) on sale, net of tax (0.9 ) - - total discontinued operations, net of tax $ (54.0 ) $ (17.7 ) $ (34.4) * included in 2010 is an after-tax impairment loss of $53.9 million recorded within discontinued operations. also included in 2010 is a $12.2 million tax benefit resulting from a reduction in the company deferred tax asset valuation allowance for net operating losses. 42 table of contents the components of assets and liabilities recorded as held for sale on the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2009 are as follows: in millions december 31, 2009 assets current assets $ 36.6 property, plant and equipment, net 17.8 other assets and deferred income taxes 18.9 assets held for sale $ 73.3 liabilities current liabilities $ 25.2 noncurrent liabilities 4.3 liabilities held for sale $ 29.5 compact equipment divestiture on july 29, 2007, we agreed to sell our bobcat, utility equipment and attachments business units (collectively, compact equipment) to doosan infracore for gross proceeds of approximately $4.9 billion, subject to post closing purchase price adjustments. the sale was completed on november 30, 2007. we are currently in the process of resolving post-closing matters relating to the final purchase price adjustments and other items with doosan infracore. compact equipment manufactured and sold compact equipment, including skid-steer loaders, compact track loaders, mini-excavators and telescopic tool handlers; portable air compressors, generators and light towers; general-purpose light construction equipment; and attachments. we accounted for compact equipment as discontinued operations within the income statement. net revenues and after-tax earnings of compact equipment for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2010 2009 2008 net revenues $ - $ - $15.3 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ (2.9) $ 7.2 $ (0.6) gain (loss) on sale, net of tax 0.2 (37.8) (11.1) total discontinued operations, net of tax $ (2.7) $ (30.6) $ (11.7) road development divestiture on february 27, 2007, we agreed to sell our road development business unit to ab volvo (publ) for cash proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion. the sale was completed on april 30, 2007. the road development business unit manufactured and sold asphalt paving equipment, compaction equipment, milling machines and construction-related material handling equipment. we accounted for the road development business unit as discontinued operations within the income statement. 43 table of contents net revenues and after-tax earnings of the road development business unit for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2010 2009 2008 net revenues $ - $ - $ - after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ 0.1 $ 0.8 $ (0.4 ) gain (loss) on sale, net of tax (0.3 ) 8.2 (29.4 ) total discontinued operations, net of tax $ (0.2 ) $ 9.0 $ (29.8 ) other discontinued operations we also have retained costs from previously sold businesses that mainly include costs related to postretirement benefits, product liability and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related). the components of other discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2010 2009 2008 retained costs, net of tax $ (42.2 ) $ 4.4 $ (16.7 ) net gain (loss) on disposals, net of tax - 5.6 0.8 total discontinued operations, net of tax $ (42.2 ) $10.0 $ (15.9 ) retained costs, net of tax for the year ended december 31, 2008 includes $6.5 million of after-tax costs related to an adverse verdict in a product liability lawsuit associated with a previously divested business. liquidity and capital resources during 2009, we completed a comprehensive financing program that significantly enhanced our liquidity and debt profile. significant actions included the repayment of the outstanding balance of our senior unsecured bridge loan facility with the proceeds from the issuance of $1.0 billion of long-term debt (senior notes and exchangeable senior notes) and the expansion of our trane accounts receivable purchase program to encompass originators from all four of our business segments. in addition, we reduced our quarterly stock dividend from $0.18 per share to $0.07 per share, effective with our september 2009 payment. during 2010, we repaid a $260 million debt maturity in february and a $250 million senior note maturity in august. additionally, on february 17, 2010, we terminated the expanded accounts receivable purchase program prior to its expiration in march 2010. we currently believe that our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated by our operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital markets will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for the foreseeable future. liquidity the following table contains several key measures to gauge our financial condition and liquidity at the period ended december 31: in millions 2010 2009 2008 cash and cash equivalents $ 1,014.3 $ 876.7 $ 550.2 short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt 761.6 1,191.7 2,350.4 long-term debt 2,922.3 2,904.9 2,773.7 total debt 3,683.9 4,096.6 5,124.1 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders equity 7,964.3 7,071.8 6,661.4 total equity 8,059.1 7,175.7 6,762.1 debt-to-total capital ratio 31.3 % 36.2 % 43.1 % 44 table of contents short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt consisted of the following: in millions 2010 2009 debentures with put feature $ 343.6 $ 343.6 exchangeable senior notes 328.3 315.0 current maturities of long-term debt 48.4 526.5 other short-term borrowings 41.3 6.6 total $ 761.6 $ 1,191.7 commercial paper program we use borrowings under our commercial paper program for general corporate purposes. as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, we had no amounts outstanding after repaying $998.7 million during 2009. these payments were funded primarily using cash generated from our operations. debentures with put feature at december 31, 2010 and 2009, we had outstanding $343.6 million of fixed rate debentures, which only requires early repayment at the option of the holder. these debentures contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. if exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. if these options are not exercised, the final maturity dates would range between 2027 and 2028. in 2010, holders of these debentures chose to exercise the put feature on less than $0.1 million of the outstanding debentures. on february 15, 2011, holders of these debentures had the option to exercise the put feature on $37.2 million of the outstanding debentures. the holders chose not to exercise the put feature at that date. based on our cash flow forecast, we believe we will have sufficient liquidity to repay any amounts redeemable as a result of these put features. exchangeable senior notes due 2012 in april 2009, we issued $345 million of 4.5% exchangeable senior notes (the notes) through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international. interest on the notes is paid twice a year in arrears. in addition, holders may exchange their notes at their option prior to november 15, 2011 in accordance with specified circumstances set forth in the indenture agreement or anytime on or after november 15, 2011 through their scheduled maturity in april 2012. upon any exchange, the notes will be paid in cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be exchanged. the remainder due on the option feature, if any, will be paid in cash, ordinary shares or a combination thereof at the option of the company. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations. we account for the notes in accordance with gaap, which requires us to allocate the proceeds between debt and equity, in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. we allocated approximately $305 million of the gross proceeds to debt, with the remaining discount of approximately $40 million (approximately $39 million after allocated fees) recorded within equity. additionally, we are amortizing the discount into earnings over a three-year period. during the fourth quarter of 2010, the sales price condition set forth in the indenture agreement for the notes continues to be satisfied. as a result, the notes may be exchangeable at the holders option during the first quarter of 2011. therefore, we classified the debt portion of the notes as short-term in the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2010. in addition, we classified the equity portion of the notes as temporary equity to reflect the amount that could result in cash settlement at the balance sheet date. 45 table of contents long-term debt in august 2008, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the sec for an indeterminate amount of securities for future issuance and issued $1.6 billion of long-term debt pursuant to the shelf registration statement through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. approximately $1.4 billion remains outstanding as of december 31, 2010 as the company repaid $250 million as it became due during 2010. the remaining balance consists of $600 million 6.000% senior notes due in 2013 and $750 million 6.875% senior notes due in 2018. these notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ir-limited. the net proceeds from the offering were used to reduce the amount outstanding under the senior unsecured bridge loan facility. interest on the fixed rate notes will be paid twice a year. we have the option to redeem them in whole or in part at any time, and from time to time, prior to their stated maturity date at redemption prices set forth in the debt offering documents. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations. senior notes due 2014 in april 2009, we issued $655 million of 9.5% senior notes through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international. interest on the fixed rate notes will be paid twice a year in arrears. we have the option to redeem them in whole or in part at any time, and from time to time, prior to their stated maturity date at redemption prices set forth in the indenture agreement. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations. accounts receivable purchase program on march 31, 2009, we expanded our existing trane accounts receivable purchase program to encompass originators from all four of our business segments. the increase in originators allowed us to increase the program size from $150 million to $325 million. at december 31, 2009, the outstanding balance of eligible trade receivables sold to the master special purpose vehicle was $544.2 million. however, no net interests were sold to any of the three conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions. on february 17, 2010, we terminated the expanded facility prior to its expiration in march 2010. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for a further description of the program. pension plans our investment objectives in managing defined benefit plan assets are to ensure that present and future benefit obligations to all participants and beneficiaries are met as they become due; to provide a total return that, over the long-term, minimizes our required contributions at the appropriate levels of risk; and to meet any statutory or regulatory requirements. we monitor the impact of market conditions on our funding requirements on a quarterly basis. none of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced any significant impact on their liquidity due to the volatility in the markets. for further details on pension plan activity, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. cash flows the following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended december 31, respectively. for additional details, please see the consolidated statements of cash flows in the consolidated financial statements. in millions 2010 2009 2008 operating cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations $ 756.3 $ 1,764.9 $ 423.5 investing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (179.0 ) (183.1 ) (7,307.0 ) financing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (403.7 ) (1,208.1 ) 2,760.6 46 table of contents operating activities net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $756.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared with $1,764.9 million in 2009. as a result of the severe economic downturn, positive operating cash flows for 2009 reflected decreased volume levels and our increased focus on working capital management, including improvements in accounts receivable collections and inventory management. while we continued to actively manage working capital in 2010, our operating cash flows reflect increased inventory levels from 2009 as several of our end markets have stabilized and we anticipate improvement in several of our key end markets during 2011. additionally, during 2010 the company made discretionary cash contributions to its pension fund of $444 million ($359 million after tax benefit received). net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $1,764.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared with $423.5 million in 2008. 2008 operating cash flows were impacted by a tax payment of approximately $700 million in the first quarter of 2008 paid to various taxing authorities primarily associated with the compact equipment divestiture. cash flows from operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2009 include significant improvements in accounts receivable collections and inventory management, in addition to the results of trane for the entire period. investing activities net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $179.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared with $183.1 million in 2009. the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to a reduction in capital expenditures during 2010. net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $183.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared with $7,307.0 million in 2008. the change is primarily attributable to cash used for the acquisition of trane in 2008. financing activities net cash used in financing activities during the year ended december 31, 2010 was $403.7 million, compared with $1,208.1 million during 2009. the change in financing activities is primarily related to less debt repayments in 2010, additional stock options exercised and a reduction of the quarterly stock dividend. net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $1,208.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared with $2,760.6 million of net cash provided by financing activities during 2008. the change in financing activities is primarily related to the proceeds received from the bridge loan facility and commercial paper used to finance the acquisition of trane in june 2008. during the year ended december 31, 2009, we refinanced the bridge loan facility and repaid the amounts outstanding on our commercial paper program. capital resources based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future. capital expenditures were $179.5 million, $204.1 million and $305.0 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs and provide environmental enhancements and advanced technologies for existing facilities. the capital expenditure program for 2011 is estimated to be approximately $250 million, including amounts approved in prior periods. many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges. we announced plans to initiate enterprise-wide restructuring actions in october 2008. these actions included streamlining the footprint of manufacturing facilities and reducing the general and administrative cost base. during 2009, we incurred approximately $109.6 million of costs associated with this restructuring program. during 2010, we incurred costs of $45.3 million associated with ongoing restructuring actions. 47 table of contents for financial market risk impacting the company, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper programs. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper programs is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2010, our credit ratings were as follows: short-term long-term moody p-2 baa1 standard and poor a-2 bbb+ the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. on may 26, 2010, we entered into a 3-year, $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. this new facility replaced our pre-existing $1.25 billion, 5-year revolving credit facility that was scheduled to mature on august 12, 2010. at december 31, 2010, our committed revolving credit facilities totaled $2.0 billion, of which $1.0 billion expires in june 2011 and $1.0 billion expires in may 2013. these lines are unused and provide support for our commercial paper program as well as for other general corporate purposes. other available non-u.s. lines of credit were $699.2 million, of which $524.7 million were unused at december 31, 2010. these lines provide support for bank guarantees, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes. our public debt does not contain any financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2010, our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. guarantees as part of the reorganization of ir-new jersey in 2001, ir-limited fully and unconditionally guaranteed all of the issued public debt securities of ir-new jersey. ir- new jersey unconditionally guaranteed payment of the principal, premium, if any, and interest on ir-limited 4.75% senior notes due in 2015 in aggregate principal amount of $300 million. the guarantee is unsecured and provided on an unsubordinated basis. the guarantee ranks equally in right of payment with all of the existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated debt of ir-new jersey. in addition, public debt securities issued by ir-global are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ir-limited. as a part of the reorganization of ir-limited in 2009, the guarantee structure was updated to reflect the newly created legal structure under which (i) ir-international assumed the obligations of ir-limited as issuer or guarantor, as the case may be, and (ii) ir-ireland and ir-limited fully and unconditionally guaranteed the obligations under the various indentures covering the currently outstanding public debt of ir-international, ir-global and ir-new jersey. neither ir-ireland nor ir-limited has issued or intends to issue guarantees in respect of any public indebtedness incurred by trane. 48 table of contents contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment periods, in millions: less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total short-term debt $ 41.3 $ - $ - $ - $ 41.3 long-term debt 737.0 * 654.4 1,168.4 1,101.3 3,661.1 interest payments on long-term debt 246.2 460.2 269.7 603.3 1,579.4 purchase obligations 885.2 18.6 - - 903.8 operating leases 157.2 214.5 131.2 102.8 605.7 total contractual cash obligations $ 2,066.9 $ 1,347.7 $ 1,569.3 $ 1,807.4 $ 6,791.3 * includes $343.6 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. also includes $345 million related to the exchangeable senior notes due in 2012. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental and asbestos-related matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. pensions at december 31, 2010, we had net obligations of $550.9 million, which consist of noncurrent pension assets of $5.1 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $556 million. it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $51.2 million to our plans worldwide in 2011. because the timing and amounts of long-term funding requirements for pension obligations are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2010, we had postretirement benefit obligations of $883 million. we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $76.8 million in 2011. because the timing and amounts of long-term funding requirements for postretirement obligations are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. income taxes at december 31, 2010, we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $534.1 million and $100.4 million of related accrued interest and penalties. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding matters relating to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits and internal revenue service (irs) tax disputes. environmental and asbestos matters we are involved in various litigations, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. see note 11 and note 22 for additional information on matters affecting our liquidity. 49 table of contents critical accounting policies management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from estimates. the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. allowance for doubtful accounts the company has provided an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable which represents the best estimate of probable loss inherent in the company accounts receivable portfolio. this estimate is based upon the company policy, derived from its knowledge of its end markets, customer base and products. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset may be less than the carrying amount of the asset. recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level and determined using a two step process. the first step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a second step is performed, wherein the reporting unit carrying value of goodwill is compared to the implied fair value of goodwill. to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value, impairment exists and must be recognized. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value in step one is based on two valuation techniques, a discounted cash flow model (income approach) and a market adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (market approach), with each method being equally weighted in the calculation. in step 2, the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, was the price paid to acquire that reporting unit. recoverability of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the intangible assets to the estimated fair value of the respective intangible assets. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. the calculation of estimated fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. the determination of estimated fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill requires management to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. management developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. 50 table of contents 2010 impairment test for our annual impairment testing during the fourth quarter of 2010, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates generally ranging from 11.5% to 18% and terminal growth rates generally ranging from 2.5% to 4%. under the market approach, management used an adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, management compared the estimated aggregate fair value of its reporting units to the company overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except three, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15%. the three reporting units with a percentage of carrying value less than 15%, reported within the climate solutions segment, exceeded their carrying value by 4.4%, 9.4%, and 10.8%. these reporting units have goodwill of approximately $243 million, $1,075 million, and $561 million, respectively. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. 2009 impairment test for our annual impairment testing during the fourth quarter of 2009, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates generally ranging from 11% to 15% and terminal growth rates generally ranging from 2% to 5%. under the market approach, management used an adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, management compared the estimated aggregate fair value of its reporting units to the company overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except one, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15%. the one reporting unit with a percentage of carrying value less than 15%, reported within the climate solutions segment, exceeded its carrying value by 8%. this reporting unit had goodwill of approximately $840 million. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. the company believes that its use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. loss contingencies liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business, including litigation and administrative proceedings, environmental and asbestos matters and product liability, product warranty, worker compensation and other claims. the company has recorded reserves in the financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from 51 table of contents actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience data depending on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances with consultation of legal counsel, internal and external consultants and engineers. subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, the company believes its estimated reserves are reasonable and does not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the company for any year. asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. the company records a liability for its actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. although the company was neither a manufacturer nor producer of asbestos, some of its formerly manufactured components from third party suppliers utilized asbestos-related components. as a result, the company records certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax, as they relate to previously divested businesses. income and expenses associated with trane asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries are recorded within continuing operations. refer to note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further details of asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized and earned when all of the following criteria are satisfied: (a) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; (b) price is fixed or determinable; (c) collectability is reasonably assured; and (d) delivery has occurred or service has been rendered. delivery generally occurs when the title and the risks and rewards of ownership have substantially transferred to the customer. revenue from maintenance contracts or extended warranties is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, unless another method is more representative of the costs incurred. the company enters into agreements that contain multiple elements, such as equipment, installation and service revenue. for multiple-element arrangements, the revenue relating to undelivered elements is deferred until delivery of the deferred elements. the company recognizes revenue for delivered elements when the delivered item has stand-alone value to the customer, customer acceptance has occurred, and there are only customary refund or return rights related to the delivered elements. revenues from certain of our equipment and the related installation sold under construction-type contracts are recorded using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with gaap. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. the company recognizes future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-u.s. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in its judgment to be more likely than not. the company regularly reviews the recoverability of its deferred tax assets considering its historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of its tax planning strategies. where appropriate, the company records a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which the company operates. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by the company. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by the company and can raise issues regarding its filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which the company operates. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. the company believes that it has adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. the company will adjust its estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from the original or adjusted estimates of the company, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. 52 table of contents employee benefit plans the company provides a range of benefits to eligible employees and retired employees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, employee mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. the company reviews its actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. a discount rate reflects a rate at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. for u.s. plans, the discount rates are established primarily based on bond studies using the citigroup pension liability index. beginning with the 2010 year-end remeasurement, the discount rates for non-u.s. plans are established using hypothetical yield curves based on yields of corporate bonds rated aa quality. spot rates are developed from the yield curve and used to discount future benefit payments. previously for non-u.s. plans, the discount rates were based upon a review of the current yields reported on aa corporate bonds or the yields of high-quality fixed-income investments available and expected to be available during the life of the plans. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of each measurement date. the company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on input from its actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the expected 2011 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $10.2 million and the estimated return on assets assumption would increase expense by approximately $7.8 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would increase expected 2011 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.8 million and a 1.0% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate would increase the cost by approximately $1.9 million. the preparation of financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions that affect a number of amounts included in the company consolidated financial statements. if actual amounts are ultimately different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in the company results for the period in which the actual amounts become known. historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between the company estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. recently adopted accounting pronouncements: fasb asc 715, compensation retirement benefits, (asc 715) requires an entity to measure its defined benefit plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer fiscal year-end statement of financial position. the measurement date provisions of asc 715 were effective for the company for the fiscal year ending december 31, 2008. the company adopted the measurement provisions of asc 715, which resulted in an after-tax charge to retained earnings in the amount of $3.7 million ($6.5 million pre-tax) in 2008. plans acquired during 2008 were not impacted by this change. in september 2006, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 820, fair value measurements and disclosures (asc 820) to provide a framework for measuring fair value that is based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing an asset or liability. asc 820 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information to develop those assumptions. additionally, the guidance expands the disclosures about fair value measurements to include disclosing the fair value measurements of assets or liabilities within 53 table of contents each level of the fair value hierarchy. these provisions of asc 820 were effective for the company starting on january 1, 2008, with the exception of non-financial assets and liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis, which became effective january 1, 2009. refer to note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a full discussion of these provisions of asc 820. in february 2007, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 825, financial instruments (asc 825) which allows companies the option, at specified election dates, to measure financial assets and liabilities at their current fair value, with the corresponding changes in fair value from period to period recognized in the income statement. additionally, asc 825 establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar assets and liabilities. these provisions of asc 825 were effective for the company starting on january 1, 2008. the company has not elected this option available under asc 825. in december 2007, the fasb issued revised guidance to address the financial accounting and reporting for business combinations, which can be found in fasb asc 805, business combinations (asc 805). asc 805 supersedes sfas 141, business combinations and retains the fundamental requirements set forth therein regarding the purchase method of accounting. however, it expands the guidance to enable proper recognition and measurement, at fair value, the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired business. in addition, asc 805 introduces new accounting guidance on how to recognize and measure contingent consideration, contingencies, acquisition and restructuring costs. these provisions of asc 805 were effective for acquisitions occurring after january 1, 2009. in december 2007, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 810, consolidations (asc 810) which clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary represents an ownership interest that should be reported as a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements. in addition, asc 810 requires expanded income statement presentation and disclosures that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the company and the interests of the non-controlling owners of the subsidiary. asc 810, as it relates to noncontrolling interests, was effective for the company starting on january 1, 2009. in march 2008, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 815, derivatives and hedging (asc 815) which amends and expands the disclosures previously required. asc 815 requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of gains and losses on derivative instruments and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. the expanded disclosure requirements found in asc 815 as they relate to the modifications made in march 2008 were effective for the company starting on january 1, 2009. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for these expanded disclosures. in may 2008, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 470, debt (asc 470) which requires us to allocate between debt and equity the proceeds of the company exchangeable notes, in a manner that reflects the company nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. in addition, the company is required to amortize any discount into earnings over the term of the notes. these provisions of asc 470 became applicable to the company during the second quarter of 2009, upon issuance of the exchangeable senior notes in april 2009. in june 2009, the fasb issued revised guidance within asc 810. these revisions eliminate fasb interpretation 46(r) exceptions to consolidating qualifying special purpose entities, contain new criteria for determining the primary beneficiary, and increase the frequency of required reassessments to determine whether a company is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. asc 810 also contains a new requirement that any term, transaction, or arrangement that does not have a substantive effect on an entity status as a variable interest entity, a company power over a variable interest entity, or a company obligation to absorb losses or its right to receive benefits of an entity must be disregarded in applying fasb interpretation 46(r) provisions. the elimination of the qualifying special purpose entity concept and its consolidation exceptions means more entities will be subject to consolidation assessments and reassessments. these provisions of asc 810 were effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after november 15, 2009, and for interim periods within that 54 table of contents first period, with earlier adoption prohibited. the provisions of asc 810 did not have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. in june 2009, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 860, transfers and servicing (asc 860). these revisions eliminate the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, create more stringent conditions for reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale, clarify other sale-accounting criteria, and change the initial measurement of a transferor interest in transferred financial assets. these provisions of asc 860 were effective for transfers of financial assets in fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2009 and in interim periods within those fiscal years with earlier adoption prohibited. the provisions of asc 860 did not have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. in january 2010, the fasb issued revised guidance within fasb asc 820, fair value measurements and disclosures (asc 820). the revisions require interim disclosures regarding the amounts and reasons for significant transfers in and out of level 1 and level 2 fair value measurements, as well as disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities and about the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value for both recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements. these disclosures are required for fair value measurements that fall in either level 2 or level 3. additionally, the revision also requires separate presentation of level 3 activity for the fair value measurements, using significant unobservable inputs. these revisions were effective as of january 1, 2010, with the exception of the separate presentation of level 3 activity, which is not effective until fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2010 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for these additional disclosures. in july 2010, the fasb issued asu 2010-20 which revised guidance within asc 310, receivables (asc 310). these revisions include additional disclosures regarding the credit quality of financing receivables to aid financial statement users in their appraisal of credit risk exposure and the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses. the new disclosure requirements were effective for the company as of december 31, 2010, and new disclosures regarding reporting period activity are effective for interim and annual periods thereafter. the provisions of asu 2010-20 did not have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. to manage certain of those exposures, we use derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts. derivative instruments utilized by us in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell their products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. we actively manage the currency exposures that are associated with purchases and sales and other assets and liabilities at the operating unit level. exposures that cannot be naturally offset to an insignificant amount are hedged with foreign currency derivatives. we also have non-u.s. currency net asset exposures, which we currently do not hedge with any derivative instrument. we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2010, a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% decrease in exchange rates would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $53.5 million, as compared with $68.4 million at december 31, 2009. these amounts would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying currency transactions. 55 table of contents commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of raw materials used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have any committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2010. interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates would not have a material effect on our results of operations. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 41 backlog our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at december 31 , was as follows: in millions 2011 2010 climate solutions $ 1,395.8 $ 1,653.0 residential solutions 42.8 68.6 industrial technologies 489.5 412.3 security technologies 135.1 131.3 total $ 2,063.2 $ 2,265.2 these backlog figures are based on orders received. while the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. we expect to ship substantially all the december 31, 2011 backlog during 2012 . environmental matters we continue to be dedicated to an environmental program intended to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process as well as to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the environmental protection agency and similar state authorities. we have been also identified as a potentially responsible party (prp) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal superfund and state remediation sites. for all such sites, there are other prps and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal. in estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other prps who may be jointly and severally liable. the ability of other prps to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties' financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future. we incurred $ 3.1 million , $ 1.0 million , and $2.5 million of expenses during the years ended december 31, 2011 , 2010 , and 2009 , respectively, for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010 , we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $ 71.7 million and $ 81.0 million , respectively. of these amounts $ 51.3 million and $ 56.3 million relate to remediation of sites previously disposed by us. environmental reserves are classified as accrued expenses and other current liabilities, or other noncurrent liabilities based on their expected term. our total current environmental reserve at december 31, 2011 and 2010 was $ 26.9 million and $ 28.1 million , respectively. given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain. for a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters as well as note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 7 table of contents asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in u.s. state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims have been filed against either ingersoll-rand company (ir-new jersey) or trane and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. see also the discussion under part i, item 3, legal proceedings, and part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters as well as note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. employees as of december 31, 2011 , we employed approximately 52,000 people throughout the world. available information we file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934. the public may read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov. in addition, this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the board of directors of the company has also adopted and posted in the investor relations section of the company's website our corporate governance guidelines and charters for each of the board's standing committees. the contents of the company's website are not incorporated by reference in this report. certifications new york stock exchange annual chief executive officer certification the company's chief executive officer submitted to the new york stock exchange the annual ceo certification as the company's compliance with the new york stock exchange's corporate governance listing standards required by section 303a.12 of the new york stock exchange's listing standards. sarbanes-oxley act section 302 certification the certifications of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the company pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a . risk factors our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks set forth below are those we consider most significant. we face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material but could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations. you should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. in that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. our global operations subject us to economic risks. our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the u.s. and internationally, including europe, china, brazil, venezuela, africa, india and turkey. these activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: changes in local laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints; limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; 8 table of contents imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas; difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and economic downturns and social and political instability. these risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services. we must develop and commercialize new products and services in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. the development and commercialization of new products and services require a significant investment of resources. we cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. we also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by the market. failure to develop new products and services that are accepted by the market could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. see part ii item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. more than 40% of our 2011 net revenues were derived outside the u.s., and we expect sales to non-u.s. customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues. although we enter into currency exchange contracts to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time may, in some instances, have a material impact on our results of operations. because we do not hedge against all of our currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to currency fluctuations. we also translate assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements based on the applicable exchange rates. consequently, fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar versus other currencies will have a material impact on the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other contingencies may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any improper conduct could damage our reputation and subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. 9 table of contents we may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. we rely extensively on information technology systems to manage and operate our business. we are also investing in new information technology systems that are designed to continue improving our operations. if these systems cease to function properly or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. commodity shortages and price increases and higher energy prices could adversely affect our financial results. we rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. a disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we do not currently hedge against this volatility. while we use fixed price contracts to mitigate this exposure, we expect any future hedging activity to seek to minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices which would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases. additionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations in the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products, and supplying services, to customers around the world. consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. our operational excellence efforts may not achieve the improvements we expect. we utilize a number of tools, such as lean six sigma, to improve operational efficiency and productivity. implementation of new processes to our operations could cause disruptions and there is no assurance that all of our planned operational excellence projects will be fully implemented or, if implemented, will realize the expected improvements. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. at december 31, 2011, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $ 6.1 billion and $ 2.6 billion , respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods recognized. changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect certain segments of the company's business and impact overall results of operations. demand for certain segments of the company's products and services is influenced by weather conditions. for instance, trane's sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of the company's business and impact overall results of operations. continued weakness in the residential and commercial construction markets may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. certain of the company's segments provide products and services to the residential and commercial construction markets. weakness in these markets may negatively impact the demand for our products and services. decrease in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. our operations are subject to regulatory risks. our u.s. and non-u.s. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety. we have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require 10 table of contents significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. in addition, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions. if we are unable to effectively respond to changes to applicable laws and regulations or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. if the distribution of wabco's shares by trane on july 31, 2007 were to fail to qualify as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code (the code ), then trane may be required to pay u.s. federal income taxes. trane received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that the distribution of wabco shares to its shareholders qualified as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the code. trane also received an opinion of skadden, arps, slate, meagher &amp; flom, llp, at the time of the distribution, as to the tax-free nature of the transaction. moreover, in connection with our subsequent acquisition of trane, we received an opinion of simpson, thacher &amp; bartlett llp, substantially to the effect that the distribution should continue to qualify as tax-free to trane, wabco and trane shareholders under section 355 and related provisions of the code. the ruling and opinions were based on, among other things, certain assumptions as well as on the accuracy of certain factual representations and statements made by the company, wabco and trane. in rendering its ruling, the irs also relied on certain covenants that trane and wabco entered into, including the adherence to certain restrictions on wabco's and trane's future actions. notwithstanding the private letter ruling or the opinions of counsel, there can be no assurance that the irs will not later assert that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction. if the wabco distribution is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of wabco's common stock distributed to the trane shareholders over (ii) trane's tax basis in such common stock. we have a tax sharing agreement with wabco under which wabco would be responsible for all taxes imposed on trane as a result of the distribution except where taxes are imposed as a result of actions taken after the distribution by trane or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders. if wabco was unable to satisfy its obligations under the tax sharing agreement or if trane was unable to rely on the tax sharing agreement for any reason, any potential liability arising from the distribution of wabco's shares by trane could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. risks relating to our past reorganizations we effected a corporate reorganization in december 2001 to become a bermuda company (the bermuda reorganization) and a subsequent corporate reorganization in july 2009 to become an irish public limited company. these reorganizations exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations will be realized. changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under u.s. or non-u.s. tax laws or adverse determinations by taxing authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. tax authorities or non-u.s. tax authorities. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for instance, recent u.s. legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident for u.s. tax purposes, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations. there are other recent u.s. legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. moreover, other u.s. legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our u.s. subsidiaries to our non-u.s. affiliates, which could increase our tax liability. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation in any jurisdiction. while we monitor proposals that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax law is challenged and determined to be incorrect. in particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the ireland reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation. while our u.s. operations are subject to u.s. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-u.s. operations are generally not subject to u.s. tax other than withholding taxes. the irs or a court, however, may not concur with our conclusions including 11 table of contents our determination that we, and a significant number of our foreign subsidiaries, are not currently controlled foreign corporations (cfc) within the meaning of the u.s. tax laws. a contrary determination, which could also arise through significant future acquisitions of our stock by u.s. persons, could also potentially cause u.s. holders (direct, indirect or constructive owners) of 10% or more of our stock (or the voting stock of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) to include in their gross income their pro rata share of certain of our and our non-u.s. subsidiary income for the period during which we (and our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc. in addition, gain (or a portion of such gain) realized on cfc shares sold by such shareholders may be treated as ordinary income depending on certain facts. treatment of us or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries as a cfc could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. as described further in legal proceedings , we have received several notices from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001-2002 tax years. the irs has not contested the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda in any of these notices. we have and intend to continue to vigorously contest these proposed adjustments. although the outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for this matter and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. as we move forward to resolve this matter with the irs, the reserves established may be adjusted. although we continue to contest the irs's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. if the irs's position with respect to 2002 is ultimately sustained it will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although we expect them to do so, at this time the irs has not yet proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2002 as the federal income tax audits for those years are still in process or have not yet begun. it is unclear how the irs will apply their position to subsequent years or whether the irs will take a similar position with respect to other intercompany debt instruments. the inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our reorganizations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. legislative and regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us. the u.s. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to u.s. companies that reincorporate outside of the u.s. or have reincorporated outside of the u.s. for instance, the homeland security act of 2002, as amended, includes a provision that prohibits inverted domestic corporations and their subsidiaries from entering into contracts with the department of homeland security. in addition, the state of california adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain non-u.s. chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts. more recently, the 2008, 2009 and 2010 consolidated appropriations acts prohibit any federal government agency from using funds appropriated by congress for fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010 to pay an inverted domestic corporation or any of its subsidiaries for work performed or products provided under certain federal contracts ( affected contracts ). although the amount of monies already paid to us or to be paid to us under the affected contracts is not material to the company, we cannot provide any assurance that the impact of future actions taken by the government in this area will not be materially adverse to our operations. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct business in the united states and in other countries but have changed their place of incorporation to another country. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on u.s. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. in addition, irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. also, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. these authorizations must be renewed by the shareholders every five years and we cannot guarantee that these authorizations will always be approved. 12 table of contents dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, we are required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. in the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the united states will not be subject to irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain irish dividend withholding tax forms. however, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ir-ireland. our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ir-ireland. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties as of december 31, 2011 , we owned or leased a total of approximately 17 million square feet of space worldwide. manufacturing and assembly operations are conducted in 72 plants across the world. we also maintain various warehouses, offices and repair centers throughout the world. the majority of our plant facilities are owned by us with the remainder under long-term lease arrangements. we believe that our plants have been well maintained, are generally in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. the locations by segment of our principal plant facilities at december 31, 2011 were as follows: climate solutions americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific curitiba, brazil kolin, czech republic wujiang, china arecibo, puerto rico charmes, france zhong shan, china fort smith, arkansas golbey, france taicang, china pueblo, colorado galway, ireland penang, malaysia lynn haven, florida barcelona, spain samuthprakarn, thailand louisville, georgia macon, georgia rushville, indiana lexington, kentucky minneapolis, minnesota hastings, nebraska charlotte, north carolina columbia, south carolina clarksville, tennesse waco, texas la crosse, wisconsin 13 table of contents residential solutions americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific ensenada, mexico monterrey, mexico tecate, mexico tijuana, mexico fort smith, arkansas vidalia, georgia trenton, new jersey tyler, texas caracas, venezuela industrial technologies americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific dorval, canada unicov, czech republic changzhou, china augusta, georgia douai, france guilin, china campbellsville, kentucky wasquehal, france nanjing, china madison heights, michigan oberhausen, germany shanghai, china mocksville, north carolina fogliano redipuglia, italy ahmedabad, india southern pines, north carolina vignate, italy ghaziabad, india west chester, pennsylvania seattle, washington security technologies americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific ensenada, mexico feuquieres, france shanghai, china tecate, mexico renchen, germany auckland, new zealand tijuana, mexico faenza, italy security, colorado monsampolo, italy princeton, illinois duzce, turkey indianapolis, indiana cincinnati, ohio item 3. legal proceedings in the normal course of business, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, including commercial and contract disputes, employment matters, product liability claims, asbestos-related claims, environmental liabilities and intellectual property disputes. in our opinion, pending legal matters are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. tax related matters on july 20, 2007, we received a notice from the internal revenue service (irs) containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years. the irs did not contest the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda. the most significant adjustments proposed by the irs involve treating the entire intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda as equity. as a result of this recharacterization, the irs disallowed the deduction of interest paid on the debt and imposed dividend withholding taxes on the payments denominated as interest. the irs also asserted an alternative argument to be applied if the intercompany debt is respected as debt. in that circumstance, the irs proposed to ignore the entities that hold the debt and to which the interest was paid, and impose 30% withholding tax on a portion of the interest payments as if they were made directly to a company that was not eligible for reduced u.s. withholding tax under a u.s. income tax treaty. the irs asserted under this alternative theory that we owe additional taxes with respect to 2002 of approximately $ 84 million plus interest. we strongly disagreed with the view of the irs, and filed a protest with the irs in the third quarter of 2007. 14 table of contents on january 12, 2010, we received an amended notice from the irs eliminating its assertion that the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda should be treated as equity. however, the irs continues to assert the alternative position described above and proposes adjustments to our 2002 tax filings. if this alternative position is upheld, the company would be required to record additional charges. in addition, the irs provided notice on january 19, 2010, that it is assessing penalties of 30% on the asserted underpayment of tax described above. we have and intend to continue to vigorously contest these proposed adjustments. we, in consultation with our outside advisors, carefully considered the form and substance of our intercompany financing arrangements, including the actions necessary to qualify for the benefits of the applicable u.s. income tax treaties. we believe that these financing arrangements are in accordance with the laws of the relevant jurisdictions including the u.s., that the entities involved should be respected and that the interest payments qualify for the u.s. income tax treaty benefits claimed. although the outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for this matter and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. as we move forward to resolve this matter with the irs, the reserves established may be adjusted. although we continue to contest the irs's position there can be no assurance that we will be successful. if the irs's position with respect to 2002 is ultimately sustained it will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. although we expect them to do so, at this time the irs has not yet proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2002 as the federal income tax audits for those years are still in process or have not yet begun. it is unclear how the irs will apply their position to subsequent years or whether the irs will take a similar position with respect to other intercompany debt instruments. for a further discussion of tax matters, see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos-related matters certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims have been filed against either ir-new jersey or trane and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters and also note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 15 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following is a list of executive officers of the company as of february 21, 2012 . name and age date of service as an executive officer principal occupation and other information for past five years michael w. lamach (48) 2/16/2004 chairman of the board (since june 2010) and chief executive officer and president (since february 2010); president and chief operating officer (2009-2010); senior vice president and president, trane commercial (2008-2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2004-2008) steven r. shawley (59) 8/1/2005 senior vice president and chief financial officer (since june 2008); senior vice president and president, climate control technologies (2005-2008) marcia j. avedon (50) 2/7/2007 senior vice president, human resources and communications (since february 2007); merck &amp; co., inc. (a global healthcare company), senior vice president, human resources (2003-2006) paul a. camuti (50) 8/1/2011 senior vice president, innovation and chief technology officer (since august 2011); president, smart grid applications, siemens energy, inc. (an energy technology subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2010 -2011); president, research division, siemens corporation (a diversified global technology company) (2009 - 2010); president and chief executive officer, siemens corporate research, inc. (the research subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2005 - 2009) john w. conover iv (57) 7/1/2009 senior vice president and president, security technologies (since july 2009); president, trane commercial systems, americas (2005-2009) robert l. katz (49) 11/1/2010 senior vice president and general counsel (since november 2010); federal- mogul corporation (a global automotive supplier), senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary (2007-2010); delphi corporation, general counsel - emea (1999-2006) gary s. michel (49) 8/1/2011 senior vice president and president, residential solutions (since august 2011); president and chief executive officer, club car (2007 - 2011); executive director, corporate development (2007) didier teirlinck (55) 6/4/2008 senior vice president and president, climate solutions (since october 2009); president, climate control technologies (since june 2008); president, climate control europe (2005-2008) todd d. wyman (44) 11/16/2009 senior vice president, global operations and integrated supply chain: (since november 2009); ge transportation (a unit of general electric company), vice president, global supply chain (2007-2009); ge transportation, general manager, global supply chain (2003-2007) robert g. zafari (53) 7/1/2010 senior vice president and president, industrial technologies (since july 2010); president, tcs and climate solutions emeia (2009-2010); president, security technologies esa (2007-2008); president, compact vehicle technologies esa (2003-2006) richard j. weller (55) 9/8/2008 vice president and controller (since september 2008); vice president, finance (2008); vice president, finance, security technologies sector (2005-2008) no family relationship exists between any of the above-listed executive officers of the company. all officers are elected to hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. 16 table of contents item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities information regarding the principal market for our ordinary shares and related shareholder matters is as follows: our ordinary shares are traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir. as of february 10, 2012 , the approximate number of record holders of ordinary shares was 4,885 . the high and low sales price per share and the dividend declared per share for the following periods were as follows: ordinary shares 2011 high low dividend first quarter $ 49.07 $ 43.97 $ 0.07 second quarter 52.33 42.75 0.12 third quarter 47.22 26.13 0.12 fourth quarter * 34.18 26.48 0.28 2010 high low dividend first quarter $ 37.51 $ 31.26 $ 0.07 second quarter 40.01 34.49 0.07 third quarter 38.15 32.53 0.07 fourth quarter 47.36 35.91 0.07 * in december 2011, we declared a dividend of $ 0.16 per ordinary share payable on march 30, 2012 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2012. future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the irish companies act. under the irish companies act, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits of ir-ireland. in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of ir-ireland are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of ir-ireland's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce ir-ireland's net assets below such aggregate. information regarding equity compensation plans required to be disclosed pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the annual general meeting of shareholders. 17 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the following table provides information with respect to purchases by the company of its ordinary shares during the quarter ended december 31, 2011 : period total number of shares purchased (000's) (a) (b) average price paid per share (a) (b) total number of shares purchased as part of program (000's) (a) approximate dollar value of shares still available to be purchased under the program ($000's) october 1 - october 31 7,990.8 $ 28.88 7,990.5 $ 1,193,957 november 1 - november 30 6,853.7 31.19 6,853.6 980,174 december 1 - december 31 4,179.0 32.76 4,177.9 843,295 total 19,023.5 $ 30.57 19,022.0 (a) on april 7, 2011, we announced that our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program. based on market conditions, share repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions at the discretion of management. the repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date. (b) we may also reacquire shares out side of the repurchase program from time to time in connection with the surrender of shares to cover taxes on vesting of share based awards. in october, november, and december 348, 64, and 1,082 shares, respectively, were reacquired in transactions outside the repurchase program. performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our ordinary shares with the cumulative total return on (i) the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and (ii) the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index for the five years ended december 31, 2011. the graph assumes an investment of $100 in our ordinary shares, the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index on december 31, 2006 and assumes the reinvestment of dividends. 18 table of contents item 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts: at and for the years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 net revenues $ 14,782.0 $ 14,001.1 $ 13,009.1 $ 12,927.9 $ 8,401.5 net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations 400.0 759.7 488.1 (2,527.6 ) 756.5 discontinued operations (56.8 ) (117.5 ) (36.8 ) (97.2 ) 3,210.2 total assets 18,754.2 19,990.9 19,991.0 20,924.5 14,376.2 total debt 3,642.6 3,683.9 4,096.6 5,124.1 1,453.7 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 6,924.3 7,964.3 7,071.8 6,661.4 7,907.9 earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic: continuing operations $ 1.23 $ 2.34 $ 1.52 $ (8.41 ) $ 2.60 discontinued operations (0.17 ) (0.36 ) (0.11 ) (0.32 ) 11.04 diluted: continuing operations $ 1.18 $ 2.24 $ 1.48 $ (8.41 ) $ 2.56 discontinued operations (0.17 ) (0.35 ) (0.11 ) (0.32 ) 10.87 dividends declared per ordinary share $ 0.59 $ 0.28 $ 0.50 $ 0.72 $ 0.72 1. 2009-2007 amounts have been restated to reflect the koxka and energy systems businesses as discontinued operations. 2010-2007 amounts have been restated to reflect the integrated systems and services business as discontinued operations. 2. 2008 amounts include the results of trane subsequent to the acquisition date (june 5, 2008 through december 31, 2008). 3. 2008 earnings (loss) from continuing operations include an after-tax, non-cash asset impairment charge of $3.4 billion that was recognized in the fourth quarter. 4. 2011 amounts represent the operating results of hussmann business and branches through their respective divestiture and transaction dates of september 30, 2011 and november 30, 2011, respectively. 5. 2011 earnings (loss) from continuing operations include an after-tax loss on sale and impairment charges related to the hussmann divestiture of $ 546 million . 6. 2011 dividends declared per ordinary share includes a dividend of $ 0.16 per ordinary share, declared in december 2011, and payable on march 30, 2012 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2012. 19 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this annual report. overview organization we are a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables, secure homes and commercial properties, and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. our business segments consist of climate solutions, residential solutions, industrial technologies and security technologies, each with strong brands and leading positions within their respective markets. we generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as club car , ingersoll-rand , schlage , thermo king and trane . to achieve our mission of becoming a world leader in creating safe, comfortable and efficient environments, as well as to become a more diversified company with strong growth and profitability prospects, we began transforming our enterprise portfolio in recent years by divesting cyclical, low-growth and asset-intensive businesses. in addition, our acquisition strategy has helped deliver more consistent revenue and earnings performance across all phases of the economic cycle. aside from our portfolio transformation, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream from parts, service, used equipment and rentals; and to continuously improve the efficiencies and capabilities of the products and services of our high-potential businesses. we also continue to focus on operational excellence strategies as a central theme to improving our company. on july 1, 2009, ir-limited, a bermuda company, completed a reorganization to change the jurisdiction of incorporation of our parent company from bermuda to ireland. as a result, ir-ireland replaced ir-limited as the ultimate parent company effective july 1, 2009. the ireland reorganization was accounted for as a reorganization of entities under common control and accordingly, did not result in any changes to the consolidated amounts of assets, liabilities and equity. in conjunction with the ireland reorganization, ir-limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ir-ireland and the class a common shareholders of ir-limited became ordinary shareholders of ir-ireland. all references related to the company prior to july 1, 2009 relate to ir-limited. the ireland reorganization did not have a material impact on our financial results. ir-ireland continues to be subject to sec reporting requirements and prepares financial statements in accordance with gaap. shares of ir-ireland continue to trade on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir , the same symbol under which the ir-limited class a common shares previously traded. trends and economic events we are a global corporation with worldwide operations. as a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors, as well as political factors, wherever we operate or do business. our geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of our product sales and services, has helped mitigate the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. given the broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the company. we monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. in addition, our order rates are indicative of future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. in those industry segments where we are a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. since the onset of the economic downturn in 2008, we have seen weaker demand for many of our products and services across each of our businesses. current market conditions continue to impact our financial results. for example, depressed residential and consumer markets are impacting the operating results in our residential hvac and golf equipment businesses. the residential hvac business is also being impacted by a mix shift to units with a lower seasonal energy efficiency rating (seer). stagnant building activity is negatively impacting the results of our security business. however, we have seen sustained recoveries in the worldwide industrial and refrigerated transport markets, global parts and service activity and across most of our businesses in 20 table of contents asia. we believe the north american commercial hvac market is also slowly recovering. as economic conditions continue to stabilize, we expect modest revenue growth along with the continued benefits of restructuring savings and productivity programs. despite the current market environment, we believe we have a solid foundation of global brands and leading market shares in all of our major product lines. our growing geographic and industry diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service, parts and replacement revenue streams. in addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which we expect will drive our future growth. significant events in 2011 dividend increase and share repurchase program in april 2011, we increased our quarterly stock dividend from $ 0.07 to $ 0.12 per share beginning with our june 2011 payment. in addition, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program. on june 8, 2011, we commenced share repurchases under this program. during the year ended december 31, 2011 , we repurchased 36.3 million shares for approximately $ 1.2 billion . these repurchases were accounted for as a reduction of ordinary shares and capital in excess of par value as they were canceled upon repurchase. in december 2011, we announced an increase in our quarterly stock dividend from $ 0.12 per share to $ 0.16 per share beginning with our march 2012 payment. discontinued operations on december 30, 2011, we completed the divestiture of our security installation and service business, which was sold under the integrated systems and services brand in the united states and canada, to kratos public safety &amp; security solutions, inc. this business, which was previously reported as part of the security technologies segment, designs, installs and services security systems. as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. see "divestitures and discontinued operations" within management's discussion and analysis and also note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our discontinued operations. divested operations on september 30, 2011, we completed a transaction to sell our hussmann refrigerated display case business to a newly-formed affiliate (hussmann parent) of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). this transaction included the equipment business and certain of the service branches in the u.s. and canada, and the equipment, service and installation businesses in mexico, chile, australia, new zealand, and japan (hussmann business). the transaction allowed hussmann parent the option to acquire the remaining north american hussmann service and installation branches (hussmann branches). hussmann parent completed the acquisition of the hussmann branches on november 30, 2011. the hussmann business and branches, which were reported as part of the climate solutions segment through their respective transaction dates, manufacture, market, distribute, install, and service refrigerated display merchandising equipment, refrigeration systems, over the counter parts, and other commercial and industrial refrigeration applications. the assets and liabilities related to the hussmann business and branches are classified as held for sale for all historical periods presented. however, the business does not qualify for treatment as a discontinued operation as the final deal terms included, among other things, an ongoing equity ownership interest by us in hussmann parent which now owns the hussmann business and branches. see "divestitures and discontinued operations" within management's discussion and analysis and also note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our divested operations. venezuela devaluation during the fourth quarter of 2009, the blended consumer price index/national consumer price index of venezuela reached a cumulative three-year inflation rate in excess of 100%. as a result, venezuela was designated as highly inflationary effective january 1, 2010. accordingly, the u.s. dollar was determined to be the functional currency of our venezuelan subsidiaries and all foreign currency fluctuations during 2011 and 2010 have been recorded in other, net. at december 31, 2009, we remeasured our foreign currency receivables and payables associated with the venezuelan bolivar at the parallel rate of 6.0 bolivars for each u.s. dollar. this was based on our inability to settle certain transactions through the official government channels in an expeditious manner. previously, we remeasured all foreign currency transactions at the official rate of 2.15 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as a result, we recorded a $ 24 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2009 associated with the devaluation. on may 17, 2010, the government of venezuela effectively closed down the parallel market claiming it was a significant cause of inflation in venezuela. on june 9, 2010, a new parallel market (sitme) opened under control of the central bank at which time the company began utilizing it for currency exchange, subject to any limitations under local regulations. effective august 2011, we began utilizing the official rate (now 4.29 bolivars to the u.s. dollar) for re-measurement purposes due to our increased ability to settle transactions at that rate. 21 table of contents significant events in 2010 discontinued operations on december 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the energy systems brand, to flex energy, inc. the business, which was previously reported as part of the industrial technologies segment, designs, manufactures, markets, distributes, and services gas powered microturbine generators which feature energy efficient design and low emissions technology. as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. on october 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our european refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the koxka brand, to an affiliate of american industrial acquisition corporation (aiac group). the business, which was previously reported as part of the climate solutions segment, designs, manufactures and markets commercial refrigeration equipment through sales branches and a network of distributors throughout europe, africa and the middle east. as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. see "divestitures and discontinued operations" within management's discussion and analysis and also note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our discontinued operations. healthcare reform in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the healthcare and education reconciliation bill of 2010 (collectively, the healthcare reform legislation) were signed into law. as a result, effective 2013, the tax benefits available to us will be reduced to the extent our prescription drug expenses are reimbursed under the medicare part d retiree drug subsidy program. although the provisions of the healthcare reform legislation relating to the retiree drug subsidy program do not take effect until 2013, we are required to recognize the full accounting impact in our financial statements in the reporting period in which the healthcare reform legislation is enacted. as retiree healthcare liabilities and related tax impacts are already reflected in our financial statements, the healthcare reform legislation resulted in a non-cash charge to income tax expense in the first quarter of 2010 of $ 40.5 million . currently, our retiree medical plans receive the retiree drug subsidy under medicare part d. no later than 2014, a significant portion of the drug coverage will be moved to an employer group waiver plan while retaining the same benefit provisions. this change resulted in an actuarial gain which decreased our december 31, 2010 retiree medical plan liability, as well as the net actuarial losses in other comprehensive income by $ 41.1 million . we will continue to monitor the healthcare reform legislation to review provisions which could impact our accounting for retiree medical benefits in future periods. we may consider future plan amendments, which may have accounting implications as further regulations are promulgated and interpretations of the legislation become available. additionally, we continue to monitor the individual market place for post-65 retiree medical coverage and will consider amendments to our health plans, which may have accounting implications on our plans. the healthcare reform legislation could also impact our accounting for income taxes in future periods. we will continue to assess the accounting implications of the healthcare reform legislation. significant events in 2009 in the fourth quarter of 2009, we realigned our external reporting structure to more closely reflect our corporate and business strategies and to promote additional productivity and growth. our segments are as follows: climate solutions, residential solutions, industrial technologies and security technologies. as part of the change, we eliminated the air conditioning systems and services segment which represented the acquired trane business and created two new reportable segments, the climate solutions segment and the residential solutions segment. during 2009, we completed a comprehensive financing program that significantly enhanced our liquidity and debt profile. significant actions included the repayment of the outstanding balance of our senior unsecured bridge loan facility with the proceeds from the issuance of $ 1.0 billion of long-term debt (senior notes and exchangeable senior notes) and the expansion of our trane accounts receivable purchase program to encompass originators from all four of our business segments. in addition, we reduced our quarterly stock dividend from $ 0.18 per share to $ 0.07 per share, effective with our september 2009 payment. on february 17, 2010, we terminated the expanded accounts receivable purchase program prior to its expiration in march 2010. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we initiated enterprise-wide restructuring actions in order to streamline both our manufacturing footprint and our general and administrative cost base. we incurred approximately $109.0 million of costs associated with this program during 2009. these combined restructuring actions generated approximately $155 million of annual pretax savings for 2010. we continue to invest in ongoing restructuring activities in an effort to increase efficiencies across all of our businesses. 22 table of contents results of operations - for the years ended december 31 dollar amounts in millions, except per share data 2011 % of revenues 2010 % of revenues 2009 % of revenues net revenues $ 14,782.0 $ 14,001.1 $ 13,009.1 cost of goods sold (10,493.6 ) 71.0% (10,059.9 ) 71.9% (9,437.1 ) 72.5% selling and administrative expenses (2,781.2 ) 18.8% (2,679.8 ) 19.1% (2,686.8 ) 20.7% loss on sale/asset impairment (646.9 ) 4.4% operating income 860.3 5.8% 1,261.4 9.0% 885.2 6.8% interest expense (280.0 ) (283.2 ) (301.6 ) other, net 33.0 32.5 10.7 earnings before income taxes 613.3 1,010.7 594.3 provision for income taxes (187.2 ) (228.1 ) (81.5 ) earnings from continuing operations 426.1 782.6 512.8 discontinued operations, net of tax (56.8 ) (117.5 ) (36.6 ) net earnings 369.3 665.1 476.2 less: net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (26.1 ) (22.9 ) (24.9 ) net earnings attributable to ingersoll-rand plc $ 343.2 $ 642.2 $ 451.3 diluted net earnings (loss) per ordinary share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations $ 1.18 $ 2.24 $ 1.48 discontinued operations (0.17 ) (0.35 ) (0.11 ) net earnings $ 1.01 $ 1.89 $ 1.37 net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 5.6% , or $ 780.9 million , compared with the same period of 2010 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 2.7 % pricing 2.7 % currency exchange rates 1.6 % acquisitions/divestitures 0.1 % hussmann * (1.5 )% total 5.6 % * represents the impact of a partial year of operations for the hussmann business and branches in 2011 . the increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher volumes and product mix experienced within the climate solutions and industrial technologies business segments, as well as improved pricing and favorable foreign currency impacts across all segments. 23 table of contents net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 7.6% , or $ 992.0 million , compared with the same period of 2009 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 7.5 % pricing 0.2 % currency exchange rates 0.3 % devaluation of venezuelan bolivar (0.5 )% acquisitions 0.1 % total 7.6 % the increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher volumes experienced within the climate solutions, residential solutions, and industrial technologies business segments, as well as favorable foreign currency impacts. however, the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar had a $70.0 million impact on reported revenues during 2010. operating income/margin operating margin for the year ended december 31, 2011 decreased to 5.8% from 9.0% for the same period in 2010 . included in operating income for 2011 is a $ 646.9 million loss on sale/asset impairment charge related to the divestiture of hussmann, which had a 4.4 point impact on 2011 operating margin. excluding the loss on sale/asset impairment, operating margin increased by 1.2 points. the increase was primarily due to improved pricing across all sectors, the realization of benefits resulting from restructuring programs and productivity actions, and higher volumes. these improvements were partially offset by unfavorable revenue mix within our residential solutions and security technologies segments, as well as increased investment spending and increased material and other costs. also included in operating income for 2011 is a $ 23 million gain associated with the sale of assets from a restructured business in china. this gain had a 0.2 point impact on operating margin for 2011. operating margin for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased to 9.0% from 6.8% for the same period in 2009 . the benefit of higher volumes, productivity actions and restructuring programs more than offset the negative effect of increased material costs. also, included in operating income was $ 45.3 million of charges associated with ongoing restructuring actions compared to $ 109.0 million recorded in 2009. these costs had a 0.3 point and 0.8 point impact on operating margin in 2010 and 2009 , respectively. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2011 decreased by $ 3.2 million compared with the same period of 2010 as a result of lower average debt balances in 2011 . interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2010 decreased $ 18.4 million compared with the same period of 2009 as a result of lower average debt balances in 2010 . other, net the components of other, net, for the year ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2011 2010 2009 interest income $ 25.9 $ 15.2 $ 12.6 exchange gain (loss) 2.8 0.9 (36.2 ) earnings (loss) from equity investments (3.5 ) other 7.8 16.4 34.3 other, net $ 33.0 $ 32.5 $ 10.7 for the year ended december 31, 2011 , other, net increased by $ 0.5 million compared with the same period of 2010 . the increase in other, net resulted from favorable currency impacts and increased interest income as a result of higher average cash balances during 2011 . included within earnings (loss) from equity investments for 2011, subsequent to the hussmann divestiture transaction dates, is a $ 3.5 million equity loss on the hussmann equity investment. for the year ended december 31, 2010 , other, net increased by $ 21.8 million compared with the same period of 2009 . the increase was primarily driven by lower currency losses, which partially resulted from a $ 24 million charge recorded in 2009 associated with the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar. the increase was partially offset by $ 25 million of income recorded in the fourth 24 table of contents quarter of 2009 primarily related to a favorable settlement with an insurance carrier associated with a portion of our asbestos obligation. the settlement is included in other in the table above. we made a change in classification of certain earnings from equity investments deemed to be integral to our operations from other, net to cost of goods sold. this change in classification had a $ 9.8 million and $8.0 million impact, respectively, on the consolidated statement of income for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009 . provision for income taxes the 2011 tax provision of $ 187.2 million included an $ 88.9 million hussmann related tax benefit. for the year ended december 31, 2011 , the effective tax rate, excluding the hussmann loss on sale/asset impairment and the hussmann related tax benefit, was 21.9% compared to 22.6% in 2010 . the 2011 tax rate was below the u.s. statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which, in aggregate, have a lower effective rate and net changes in our valuation allowances, partially offset by the accrual of a previously unrecorded future withholding tax liability and net increases in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. included in the 2010 effective rate was a $40.5 million non-cash charge to income tax expense related to the healthcare reform legislation, partially offset by net changes in our valuation allowance. for the year ended december 31, 2010 , the effective tax rate was 22.6% compared to 13.7% in 2009 . the 2010 tax rate was below the u.s. statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which, in aggregate, have a lower effective rate. the 8.9 point increase in the effective rate is primarily the result of a $ 40.5 million non-cash charge to income tax expense related to the healthcare reform legislation as well as changes in geographical mix of earnings, offset by net changes in our valuation allowances. review of business segments the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each segment included in continuing operations. segment operating income is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate the financial performance of the business and as the basis for performance reviews, compensation and resource allocation. for these reasons, we believe that segment operating income represents the most relevant measure of segment profit and loss. management may exclude certain charges or gains from operating income to arrive at a segment operating income that is a more meaningful measure of profit and loss upon which to base its operating decisions. we define segment operating margin as segment operating income as a percentage of net revenues. climate solutions our climate solutions segment delivers energy-efficient refrigeration and heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) throughout the world. encompassing the transport markets as well as the commercial hvac markets, this segment offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions to manage controlled temperature environments. this segment includes the market-leading brands of thermo king and trane. on september 30, 2011 and november 30, 2011, we completed transactions to sell the hussmann business and branches, respectively, to a newly-formed affiliate (hussmann parent) of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). as part of the deal terms we have an ongoing equity interest in hussmann parent, therefore operating results continue to be recorded within continuing operations. however, subsequent to the respective transaction dates our earnings from this equity interest is not reported in segment operating income. during the year ended december 31, 2011, we recorded a pre-tax loss on sale/asset impairment charge related to the hussmann divestiture totaling $ 647 million . these charges have been excluded from segment operating income within the climate solutions segment as management excludes these charges from operating income when making operating decisions about the business. see "divestitures and discontinued operations" within management's discussion and analysis and also note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our divested operations. 2011 net revenues and segment operating income for the climate solutions segment includes the operating results of the hussmann business and branches for the nine months and eleven months, respectively, prior to the sale. the operating results for the hussmann business and branches are included in net revenues and segment operating income for the climate solutions segment for the years ended december 31 as follows: in millions 2011 2010 2009 net revenues $ 818.5 $ 1,106.1 $ 1,008.9 segment operating income $ 58.6 $ 84.4 $ 19.4 25 table of contents on october 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our european refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the koxka brand, to an affiliate of american industrial acquisition corporation (aiac group). the business, which was previously reported as part of the climate solutions segment, designs, manufactures and markets commercial refrigeration equipment through sales branches and a network of distributors throughout europe, africa and the middle east. segment information has been revised to exclude the results of this business for all periods presented. segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2011 % change 2010 % change 2009 net revenues $ 8,284.6 6.2% $ 7,800.8 8.2% $ 7,211.2 segment operating income 824.6 37.8% 598.3 38.7% 431.3 segment operating margin 10.0 % 7.7 % 6.0 % 2011 vs 2010 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 6.2% or $ 483.8 million , compared with the same period of 2010 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 4.6 % pricing 2.3 % currency exchange rates 1.8 % acquisitions/divestitures 0.1 % hussmann * (2.6 )% total 6.2 % * represents the impact of a partial year of operations for the hussmann business and branches in 2011 . trane commercial hvac revenues reflect market recovery within our equipment, systems, parts, services and solutions markets. trane commercial hvac revenues increased in all major geographic regions, with strong year-over-year improvements in the americas, asia, and europe. net revenues in our transport businesses experienced growth in most geographic areas due to improved activity within the refrigerated trailer and truck markets. in addition, sea-going container revenues and worldwide bus revenues improved due to an increase in end-market activity. segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 37.8% , or $ 226.3 million , compared with the same period of 2010 . the increase, which improved segment operating margin to 10.0% from 7.7% , was primarily related to improved pricing ($180 million), net productivity benefits ($122 million), and higher volumes and product mix ($90 million). however, the benefits resulting from these improvements were partially offset by increased material costs ($151 million), increased investment spending ($28 million) and the impacts of only a partial year of operations for the hussmann business and branches in 2011 ($10 million). included in segment operating income for 2011 was a $ 23 million gain associated with the sale of assets from a restructured business in china. this gain had a 0.3 point impact on segment operating margin. 2010 vs 2009 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 8.2% or $ 589.6 million , compared with the same period of 2009 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 7.5 % pricing 0.1 % currency exchange rates 0.7 % devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar (0.3 )% acquisitions 0.2 % total 8.2 % net revenues in our transport and stationary refrigeration businesses experienced strong improvements in all geographic areas due to the refrigerated trailer and truck markets. in addition, sea-going container revenues and worldwide bus revenues improved due to an increase in end-market activity. worldwide display cases and contracting revenue also increased due to recovering supermarket capital expenditures. trane commercial hvac revenues improved slighly as a result of increased revenue for parts, services and solutions. 26 table of contents segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 38.7% , or $ 167.0 million , compared with the same period of 2009 . the increase, which improved segment operating margin to 7.7% from 6.0% , was primarily related to higher volumes and product mix ($178 million) and net productivity benefits ($115 million). however, the benefits resulting from these improvements were partially offset by increases in material costs ($101 million). included in 2010 segment operating income was $ 23.7 million of charges associated with ongoing restructuring actions, which had a 0.3 point impact on segment operating margins. the comparable amount recorded in 2009 was $ 35.9 million , which had a 0.5 point impact on segment operating margins. residential solutions our residential solutions segment provides safety, comfort and efficiency to homeowners throughout north america and parts of south america. it offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions including mechanical and electronic locks, energy-efficient hvac systems, indoor air quality solutions, advanced controls, portable security systems and remote home management. this segment is comprised of well-known brands like american standard, schlage and trane. segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2011 % change 2010 % change 2009 net revenues $ 2,012.7 (5.1)% $ 2,121.7 6.0% $ 2,001.5 segment operating income 62.1 (67.5)% 191.3 46.5% 130.6 segment operating margin 3.1 % 9.0 % 6.5 % 2011 vs. 2010 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 decreased by 5.1% or $ 109.0 million , compared with the same period of 2010 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix (10.5 )% pricing 5.1 % currency exchange rates 0.3 % total (5.1 )% trane residential hvac revenues were impacted by continued weakness in the u.s. new residential construction and replacement markets as well as a mix shift to lower seer units. residential security revenues increased as a result of improved sales to new builder markets and big box customers primarily during the fourth quarter. segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2011 decreased by 67.5% , or $ 129.2 million , compared with the same period of 2010 . the decrease, which lowered segment operating margin to 3.1% from 9.0% , was primarily related to lower volumes and unfavorable product mix ($155 million), increased material costs ($82 million) and other inflation. however, these decreases were partially offset by improved pricing ($108 million). 2010 vs. 2009 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 6.0% or $ 120.2 million , compared with the same period of 2009 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 9.2 % pricing (0.7 )% devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar (2.5 )% total 6.0 % trane residential hvac revenues were impacted by continued weakness in the u.s. new residential construction market. however, improved sales to the replacement market more than offset the effect of the new construction market. excluding the impact of the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar, revenues in the residential security business increased primarily as a result of improving remodeling markets and an increase in end-market activity in the u.s. new builder channel. segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 46.5% , or $ 60.7 million , compared with the same period of 2009 . the increase, which improved segment operating margins to 9.0% from 6.5% , was primarily related to net productivity benefits ($68 million) and higher volumes and product mix ($43 million). however, the benefits resulting from these 27 table of contents improvements were partially offset by increased material costs ($21 million) and unfavorable pricing ($15 million). in addition, the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar negatively impacted year-over-year results by $18.0 million. industrial technologies our industrial technologies segment provides products, services and solutions that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. it offers our global customers a diverse and innovative range of products including compressed air systems, tools, pumps, fluid and material handling systems, as well as golf, utility, and rough terrain vehicles. it also includes a diverse range of service offerings including full coverage and preventative maintenance service contracts, service parts, installation, and remanufactured compressors and tools. this segment includes the club car, ingersoll rand, and aro market-leading brands. on december 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the energy systems brand, to flex energy, inc. the business, which was previously reported as part of the industrial technologies segment, designs, manufactures, markets, distributes, and services gas powered microturbine generators which feature energy efficient design and low emissions technology. segment information has been revised to exclude the results of this business for all periods presented. segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2011 % change 2010 % change 2009 net revenues $ 2,852.9 14.8 % $ 2,485.2 14.5 % $ 2,170.0 segment operating income 415.5 33.9 % 310.4 73.9 % 178.5 segment operating margin 14.6 % 12.5 % 8.2 % 2011 vs 2010 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 14.8% or $ 367.7 million , compared with the same period of 2010 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 10.3 % pricing 2.7 % currency exchange rates 1.8 % total 14.8 % we experienced strong growth within our air and productivity business primarily due to increased volume in all major geographic regions. the revenue increase in the americas was driven by improvements in our industrial and commercial markets for air compressors, tools, and fluid handling products. club car revenues also improved relative to the prior year primarily due to improved pricing. segment operating income increased by 33.9% or $ 105.1 million during 2011 . the increase, which improved segment operating margin to 14.6% from 12.5% was primarily related to improved pricing ($68 million), net productivity benefits ($64 million), and higher volumes and product mix ($60 million). however, these improvements were partially offset by increased material costs ($50 million) and increased investment spending ($15 million). 2010 vs 2009 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 increased by 14.5% or $ 315.2 million , compared with the same period of 2009 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 13.6 % pricing 1.1 % currency exchange rates (0.2 )% total 14.5 % air and productivity revenues outside of the u.s. increased as improved aftermarket activity in asia was partially offset by weaker markets in europe. u.s. markets increased as the equipment market continues to improve. club car revenues increased as a result of improving golf markets. 28 table of contents segment operating income increased by 73.9% or $ 131.9 million during 2010 . the increase, which improved segment operating margin to 12.5% from 8.2% was primarily related to higher volumes and product mix ($91 million), net productivity benefits ($58 million), and favorable pricing ($23 million). however, these improvements were partially offset by increased material costs ($22 million). included in 2010 segment operating income was $ 17.9 million of charges associated with ongoing restructuring actions, which had a 0.7 point impact on segment operating margin. the comparable amount recorded in 2009 was $ 27.1 million , which had a 1.2 point impact on 2009 segment operating margin. security technologies our security technologies segment is a leading global provider of products and services that make environments safe, secure and productive. the segment's market-leading products include electronic and biometric access control systems and software, locks and locksets, door closers, exit devices, steel doors and frames, as well as time, attendance and personnel scheduling systems. these products serve a wide range of markets including the commercial construction market, healthcare, retail, and transport industries as well as educational and governmental facilities. this segment includes the cisa, lcn, schlage and von duprin market-leading brands. on december 30, 2011, we completed the divestiture of our security installation and service business, which was sold under the integrated systems and services brand in the united states and canada, to kratos public safety &amp; security solutions, inc. this business, which was previously reported as part of the security technologies segment, designs, installs and services security systems. segment information has been revised to exclude the results of this business for all periods presented. segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2011 % change 2010 % change 2009 net revenues $ 1,631.8 2.4% $ 1,593.4 (2.0)% $ 1,626.4 segment operating income 331.6 1.0% 328.3 (0.1)% 328.6 segment operating margin 20.3 % 20.6 % 20.2 % 2011 vs 2010 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 2.4% or $ 38.4 million , compared with the same period of 2010 , which primarily resulted from the following: currency exchange rates 1.9 % pricing 1.7 % volume/product mix (1.2 )% total 2.4 % the weakness in worldwide commercial building markets continues to impact segment revenues. however, our results reflect strong improvements in asia, with slight improvements in north america and europe. segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 1.0% or $ 3.3 million , compared with the same period of 2010 . segment operating margin declined to 20.3% from 20.6% . the increase in segment operating income was primarily related to improved pricing ($27 million), net productivity benefits ($24 million), and favorable currency impacts ($2 million). however, these improvements were partially offset by increased material costs ($22 million), unfavorable mix ($20 million), and increased investment spending. 2010 vs 2009 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 decreased by 2.0% or $ 33.0 million , compared with the same period of 2009 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix (2.4 )% pricing 0.8 % currency exchange rates (0.4 )% total (2.0 )% 29 table of contents the decline in worldwide commercial building and remodeling markets continued to impact segment revenues, especially in the united states. slight improvement in europe and modest volume increases in asia helped mitigate continued weakness in the united states. segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2010 decreased by 0.1% or $ 0.3 million , compared with the same period of 2009. segment operating margin improved to 20.6% from 20.2% . the segment's operating results benefitted from net productivity ($55 million) and a reduction in restructuring activities in 2010. included in 2010 segment operating income was $ 3.1 million of charges associated with ongoing restructuring actions, which had a 0.2 point impact on segment operating margin. the comparable amount recorded in 2009 was $ 23.9 million , which had a 1.5 point impact on 2009 segment operating margin. these improvements were offset by a reduction in volumes and product mix ($48 million) and increases in material costs ($14 million). divestitures and discontinued operations divested operations hussmann divestiture on september 30, 2011, we completed a transaction to sell our hussmann refrigerated display case business to a newly-formed affiliate (hussmann parent) of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). this transaction included the equipment business and certain of the service branches in the u.s. and canada, and the equipment, service and installation businesses in mexico, chile, australia, new zealand, and japan (hussmann business). the transaction allowed hussmann parent the option to acquire the remaining north american hussmann service and installation branches (hussmann branches). hussmann parent completed the acquisition of the hussmann branches on november 30, 2011. the hussmann business and branches, which are reported as part of the climate solutions segment, manufacture, market, distribute, install, and service refrigerated display merchandising equipment, refrigeration systems, over the counter parts, and other commercial and industrial refrigeration applications. the hussmann business divestiture, which was originally announced on april 21, 2011 and anticipated to be a sale of 100% of our interest in the hussmann business, with no retained ongoing interest, met the criteria for classification as held for sale and for treatment as discontinued operations in accordance with gaap during the first and second quarters of 2011. therefore, we reported the hussmann business as a discontinued operation, classified the assets and liabilities as held for sale, and recognized $ 384 million of after-tax impairment losses in the first half of 2011 to write the net assets of the hussmann business down to their estimated fair value. we also recorded approximately $ 3 million of transaction costs during the first half of 2011 related to the sale. during the third quarter of 2011, we negotiated a transaction to sell the hussmann business and branches to cd&amp;r in exchange for $ 370 million in cash, subject to purchase price adjustments, and common stock of hussmann parent, such that following the sale, cd&amp;r would own cumulative convertible participating preferred stock of hussmann parent, initially representing 60% of the outstanding capital stock (on an as-converted basis) of hussmann parent, and we would own all of the common stock, initially representing the remaining 40% of the outstanding capital stock (on an as-converted basis) of hussmann parent. the hussmann branches met the held for sale criteria outlined in gaap. however, the hussmann business and branches did not qualify for treatment as a discontinued operation as our equity interest in the hussmann parent represents significant continuing involvement. therefore, the results of the hussmann business and branches have been presented as continuing operations for all periods presented. for the hussmann divestiture, we received consideration of $ 438 million for the hussmann business and branches, which included cash consideration, after purchase price adjustments, of $ 351 million as well as the equity interest valued at $ 87 million . accordingly, we recorded a pre-tax loss on sale/asset impairment charge of $ 260 million ($ 162 million after-tax) during the second half of 2011, which reflected net assets of $ 576 million , an accumulated other comprehensive loss of $ 86 million , an estimated indemnification obligation assumed of $ 27 million , and transaction costs of $ 9 million . results for the hussmann business and branches for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2011* 2010 2009 net revenues $ 818.5 $ 1,106.1 $ 1,008.9 loss on sale/asset impairment (646.9 ) ** net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc (513.1 ) 55.7 13.1 diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: (1.51 ) 0.16 0.04 * results represent the operating results of hussmann business and branches through their respective divestiture transaction dates. ** included in loss on sale/asset impairment for the year ended december 31, 2011 are transaction costs of $ 12.2 million . 30 table of contents our ownership interest in hussmann parent is reported using the equity method of accounting subsequent to september 30, 2011. our equity investment in the hussmann parent is reported within other noncurrent assets in the consolidated balance sheet and the related equity earnings reported within other, net in our consolidated statement of income. the components of hussmann assets and liabilities recorded as held for sale on the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2010 are as follows: in millions december 31, 2010 assets current assets $ 225.0 property, plant and equipment, net 107.4 goodwill 407.4 intangible assets, net 389.5 other assets and deferred income taxes 5.5 assets held for sale $ 1,134.8 liabilities current liabilities $ 106.1 noncurrent liabilities 61.0 liabilities held for sale $ 167.1 discontinued operations the components of discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2011 2010 2009 net revenues $ 72.2 $ 143.6 $ 186.1 pre-tax earnings (loss) from operations (69.0 ) (173.4 ) (95.6 ) pre-tax gain (loss) on sale (57.7 ) (5.4 ) (28.6 ) tax benefit (expense) 69.9 61.3 87.6 discontinued operations, net of tax $ (56.8 ) $ (117.5 ) $ (36.6 ) during 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of $22 million primarily associated with reducing our liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and a tax charge of $29 million associated with correcting immaterial accounting errors. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for a further description of these tax matters. discontinued operations by business for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2011 2010 2009 integrated systems and services, net of tax $ (6.3 ) $ (0.8 ) $ (3.0 ) energy systems, net of tax 0.2 (17.6 ) (4.3 ) koxka, net of tax (3.3 ) (54.0 ) (17.7 ) other discontinued operations, net of tax (47.4 ) (45.1 ) (11.6 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ (56.8 ) $ (117.5 ) $ (36.6 ) integrated systems and services divestiture on december 30, 2011, we completed the divestiture of our security installation and service business, which was sold under the integrated systems and services brand in the united states and canada, to kratos public safety &amp; security solutions, inc. this business, which was previously reported as part of the security technologies segment, designs, installs and services security systems. we reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. we recorded a pre-tax loss on sale of $ 6.7 million ($ 5.0 million after-tax) within discontinued operations. 31 table of contents net revenues and after-tax earnings of the integrated systems and services business for the year ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2011 2010 2009 net revenues $ 72.2 $ 78.0 $ 92.7 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ (1.3 ) $ (0.8 ) $ (3.0 ) gain (loss) on sale, net of tax (5.0 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ (6.3 ) $ (0.8 ) $ (3.0 ) the components of integrated systems and services assets and liabilities recorded as held for sale on the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2010 are as follows: in millions december 31, 2010 assets current assets $ 25.3 goodwill 2.5 intangible assets, net 4.4 assets held for sale $ 32.2 liabilities current liabilities $ 9.1 liabilities held for sale $ 9.1 energy systems divestiture on december 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the energy systems brand, to flex energy, inc. the business, which was previously reported as part of the industrial technologies segment, designs, manufactures, markets, distributes, and services gas powered microturbine generators which feature energy efficient design and low emissions technology. during 2010, we recognized an $ 8.3 million after-tax impairment loss within discontinued operations related to the write-down of the net assets to their estimated fair value. net revenues and after-tax earnings of the energy systems business for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2011 2010 2009 net revenues $ $ 8.9 $ 10.9 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ (0.4 ) $ (14.4 ) * $ (4.3 ) gain (loss) on sale, net of tax 0.6 (3.2 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ 0.2 $ (17.6 ) $ (4.3 ) * included in discontinued operations for energy systems in 2010 is an after-tax impairment loss of $ 8.3 million related to the initial write-down of the net assets to their estimated fair value. koxka divestiture on october 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our european refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the koxka brand, to an affiliate of american industrial acquisition corporation (aiac group). the business, which was previously reported as part of the climate solutions segment, designs, manufactures and markets commercial refrigeration equipment through sales branches and a network of distributors throughout europe, africa and the middle east. during 2010, we recognized a $ 53.9 million after-tax impairment loss within discontinued operations related to the write-down of the net assets to their estimated fair value. 32 table of contents net revenues and after-tax earnings of the koxka business for years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2011 2010 2009 net revenues $ $ 56.7 $ 82.5 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ (3.3 ) $ (53.1 ) * $ (17.7 ) gain (loss) on sale, net of tax (0.9 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ (3.3 ) $ (54.0 ) $ (17.7 ) * included in discontinued operations for koxka for 2010 is an after-tax impairment loss of $ 53.9 million related to the write-down of the net assets to their estimated fair value. also included in 2010 is a $ 12.2 million tax benefit resulting from a reduction in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance for net operating losses. other discontinued operations the components of other discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2011 2010 2009 retained costs, net of tax $ (31.8 ) $ (45.0 ) $ 12.4 net gain (loss) on disposals, net of tax (15.6 ) (0.1 ) (24.0 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ (47.4 ) $ (45.1 ) $ (11.6 ) on november 30, 2007, we completed the sale of our bobcat, utility equipment and attachments businesses (collectively, compact equipment) to doosan infracore for gross proceeds of approximately $ 4.9 billion , subject to post-closing purchase price adjustments. compact equipment manufactured and sold compact equipment, including skid-steer loaders, compact track loaders, mini-excavators and telescopic tool handlers; portable air compressors, generators and light towers; general-purpose light construction equipment; and attachments. we are in dispute, and are continuing to pursue other claims against doosan infracore, regarding post closing matters. during the second quarter of 2011, we collected approximately $ 48.3 million of our outstanding receivable from doosan infracore related to certain purchase price adjustments. other discontinued operations, net of tax from previously sold businesses is mainly related to postretirement benefits, product liability and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related), costs related to settlement of a lawsuit and tax effects of post closing purchase price adjustments. liquidity and capital resources we earn a significant amount of our operating income in jurisdictions where it is deemed to be permanently reinvested. our most prominent jurisdiction of operation is the u.s. we currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate funds to the u.s., and no provision for u.s. income taxes has been made with respect to such earnings. we expect existing cash and cash equivalents available to the u.s., the cash generated by our u.s. operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital markets will be sufficient to fund our u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. in addition, we expect existing non-u.s. cash and cash equivalents and the cash generated by our non-u.s. operations to be sufficient to fund our non-u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. should we require more capital in the u.s. than is generated by our u.s. operations, and we determined that repatriation of non-u.s. cash is necessary; such amounts would be subject to u.s. federal income taxes. in april 2011, we increased our quarterly stock dividend from $ 0.07 to $ 0.12 per share beginning with our june 2011 payment. in addition, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program. on june 8, 2011, we commenced share repurchases under this program. during the year ended december 31, 2011 , we repurchased 36.3 million shares for approximately $ 1.2 billion . these repurchases were accounted for as a reduction of ordinary shares and capital in excess of par value as they were canceled upon repurchase. in december 2011, we announced an increase in our quarterly stock dividend from $ 0.12 per share to $ 0.16 per share beginning with our march 2012 payment. 33 table of contents liquidity the following table contains several key measures to gauge our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended december 31: in millions 2011 2010 2009 cash and cash equivalents $ 1,160.7 $ 1,014.3 $ 876.7 short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt 763.3 761.6 1,191.7 long-term debt 2,879.3 2,922.3 2,904.9 total debt 3,642.6 3,683.9 4,096.6 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 6,924.3 7,964.3 7,071.8 total equity 7,012.4 8,059.1 7,175.7 debt-to-total capital ratio 34.2 % 31.3 % 36.2 % short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt at december 31 consisted of the following: in millions 2011 2010 debentures with put feature $ 343.6 $ 343.6 exchangeable senior notes 341.2 328.3 current maturities of long-term debt 12.5 13.3 other short-term borrowings 66.0 76.4 total $ 763.3 $ 761.6 commercial paper program the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, under the commercial paper program is $ 2 billion as of december 31, 2011 . under the commercial paper program, ingersoll-rand global holding company limited (ir-global) may issue notes from time to time, and the proceeds of the financing will be used for general corporate purposes. each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ingersoll-rand international holding limited (ir-international) has provided an irrevocable and unconditional guarantee for the notes issued under the commercial paper program. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010 , we had no amounts outstanding. debentures with put feature at december 31, 2011 and 2010 , we had outstanding $ 343.6 million of fixed rate debentures, which only require early repayment at the option of the holder. these debentures contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. if exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder's option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. if these options are not exercised, the final maturity dates would range between 2027 and 2028 . in 2011, holders of these debentures chose not to exercise the put feature on outstanding debentures. based on our cash flow forecast, we believe we will have sufficient liquidity to repay any amounts redeemable as a result of these put features. exchangeable senior notes due 2012 in april 2009, we issued $ 345 million of 4.5% exchangeable senior notes (the notes) through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international. interest on the notes is paid twice a year in arrears. in addition, holders have the option to exchange their notes through their scheduled maturity in april 2012. upon any exchange, the notes will be paid in cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be exchanged. the remainder due on the option feature, if any, may be paid in cash, ir-ireland ordinary shares or a combination thereof at the option of the company. on november 14, 2011 we elected, for all future exercises, to settle the remainder due on the option feature in whole shares of ir-ireland with cash in lieu of any fractional shares. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations. we account for the notes in accordance with gaap, which required us to allocate the proceeds between debt and equity at the issuance date, in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. we allocated approximately $ 305 million of the gross proceeds to debt, with the remaining discount of approximately $ 40 million (approximately $ 39 million after allocated fees) recorded within equity. as of december 31, 2011, the notes may be exchangeable at the holders' option through their scheduled 34 table of contents maturity in april 2012. therefore, the equity portion of the notes is classified as temporary equity to reflect the amount that could result in cash settlement at the balance sheet date. additionally, we are amortizing the discount into interest expense over a three-year period. senior notes due 2014 in april 2009, we issued $ 655 million of 9.5% senior notes through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international. interest on the fixed rate notes will be paid twice a year in arrears. we have the option to redeem them in whole or in part at any time, and from time to time, prior to their stated maturity date at redemption prices set forth in the indenture agreement. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations. accounts receivable purchase program on march 31, 2009, we expanded our existing trane accounts receivable purchase program to encompass originators from all four of our business segments. for the year ended december 31, 2009, we recorded a cash outflow of approximately $ 63 million within cash flow from operations, which represented the decrease in the net interests of the receivables sold to the conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions. on february 17, 2010, we terminated the expanded facility prior to its expiration in march 2010. other in may 2010, we entered into a 3-year $ 1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility. on may 20, 2011, we entered into a 4-year, $ 1.0 billion revolving credit facility through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. this new facility replaced our pre-existing $ 1.0 billion , 3-year revolving credit facility that was scheduled to mature in june 2011 . at december 31, 2011 , our total committed revolving credit facilities was $ 2.0 billion , of which $ 1.0 billion expires in may 2013 and $ 1.0 billion expires in may 2015 . each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international has provided an irrevocable and unconditional guarantee for these credit facilities. these lines are unused and provide support for our commercial paper program as well as for other general corporate purposes. pension plans our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. we seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contribution and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. prior to 2011, we utilized asset/liability modeling studies as the basis for global asset allocation decisions. in 2011, we adopted a dynamic approach to asset allocation whereby a plan's allocation to fixed income assets increases progressively over time towards an ultimate target of 90% as a plan moves toward full funding. we monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. during 2011, none of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to the volatility in the markets. for further details on pension plan activity, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. cash flows the following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended december 31, respectively. for additional details, please see the consolidated statements of cash flows in the consolidated financial statements. in millions 2011 2010 2009 operating cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations $ 1,230.2 $ 756.4 $ 1,756.9 investing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations 163.1 (179.0 ) (183.1 ) financing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (1,246.4 ) (403.7 ) (1,208.1 ) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $ 1,230.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared with $ 756.4 million in 2010 . operating cash flows for 2011 reflect improved earnings from continuing operations after consideration of the non-cash loss on sale/asset impairment charge related to the hussmann divestiture. operating cash flows for 2010 reflect discretionary cash contributions to our pension funds of $444 million ($359 million after tax benefit received). net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $ 756.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared with $ 1,756.9 million in 2009 . as a result of the severe economic downturn, positive operating cash flows for 2009 reflected decreased volume levels and our increased focus on working capital management, including improvements in accounts 35 table of contents receivable collections and inventory management. while we continued to actively manage working capital in 2010, our operating cash flows reflected increased accounts receivable and inventory levels from 2009 as several of our end markets stabilized and we anticipated improvement in several of our key end markets during 2011. additionally, during 2010 we made discretionary cash contributions to our pension funds of $444 million ($359 million after tax benefit received). investing activities net cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations was $ 163.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared with net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations of $ 179.0 million in 2010 . the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to net proceeds from the sale of the discontinued operations $356 million, as well as proceeds from the sale of assets from a restructured business in china. these proceeds were partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures during 2011. net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $ 179.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared with $ 183.1 million in 2009 . the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to a reduction in capital expenditures during 2010. financing activities net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations during the year ended december 31, 2011 was $ 1,246.4 million , compared with $ 403.7 million during 2010 . the change in financing activities is primarily related to approximately $ 1.2 billion of share repurchases as well as increased dividend payments, partially offset by lower repayments of long term debt in 2011. net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations during the year ended december 31, 2010 was $ 403.7 million , compared with $ 1,208.1 million during 2009 . the change in financing activities is primarily related to less debt repayments in 2010, additional stock options exercised and a reduction of the quarterly stock dividend. capital resources based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future. capital expenditures were $ 242.9 million , $ 179.5 million and $ 204.1 million for 2011 , 2010 and 2009 , respectively. our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs and provide environmental enhancements and advanced technologies for existing facilities. the capital expenditure program for 2012 is estimated to be approximately $250 million, including amounts approved in prior periods. many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges. for financial market risk impacting the company, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper program. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2011 , our credit ratings were as follows: short-term long-term moody's p-2 baa1 standard and poor's a-2 bbb+ the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. in may 2010, we entered into a 3-year $ 1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility. on may 20, 2011, we entered into a 4-year, $ 1.0 billion revolving credit facility through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. this new facility replaced our pre-existing $ 1.0 billion , 3-year revolving credit facility that was scheduled to mature in june 2011 . at december 31, 2011 , our total committed revolving credit facilities was $ 2.0 billion , of which $ 1.0 billion expires in may 2013 and $ 1.0 billion expires in may 2015 . each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international has provided an irrevocable and unconditional guarantee for these credit facilities. these lines are unused and provide support for our commercial paper program as well as for other general corporate purposes. 36 table of contents in addition, other available non-u.s. lines of credit were $ 617.2 million , of which $ 447.9 million was unused at december 31, 2011 . these lines provide support for bank guarantees, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes. our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2011 , our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. guarantees subsequent to the ireland reorganization, ir-ireland and ir-limited guarantee fully and unconditionally the outstanding public debt of ir-international, ir-global and ir-new jersey. neither ir-ireland nor ir-limited has issued or intends to issue guarantees in respect of any public indebtedness incurred by trane. contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment periods, in millions: less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total short-term debt $ 66.0 $ $ $ $ 66.0 long-term debt 700.6 * 1,270.2 517.7 1,092.8 3,581.3 interest payments on long-term debt 231.3 363.4 209.6 1,067.5 1,871.8 purchase obligations 901.3 1.9 903.2 operating leases 123.5 181.5 99.1 64.9 469.0 total contractual cash obligations $ 2,022.7 $ 1,817.0 $ 826.4 $ 2,225.2 $ 6,891.3 * includes $343.6 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. also includes $345 million related to the exchangeable senior notes due in 2012. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental and asbestos-related matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. pensions at december 31, 2011 , we had net obligations of $ 740.7 million , which consist of noncurrent pension assets of $ 4.7 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $ 745.4 million . it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $ 98.3 million to our plans worldwide in 2012 . because the timing and amounts of long-term funding requirements for pension obligations are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2011 , we had postretirement benefit obligations of $ 919.9 million . we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $ 73.2 million in 2012 . because the timing and amounts of long-term funding requirements for postretirement obligations are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. income taxes at december 31, 2011 , we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $ 536.9 million and $ 108.3 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding matters relating to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits and internal revenue service (irs) tax disputes. environmental and asbestos matters we are involved in various litigations, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. see note 8 and note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on matters affecting our liquidity. 37 table of contents critical accounting policies management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states (gaap). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from estimates. the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. allowance for doubtful accounts we have provided an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable which represents our best estimate of probable loss inherent in our accounts receivable portfolio. this estimate is based upon our policy, derived from our knowledge of our end markets, customer base and products. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level and determined using a two step process. the first step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a second step is performed, wherein the reporting unit's carrying value of goodwill is compared to the implied fair value of goodwill. to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value, impairment exists and must be recognized. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value in step one is based on two valuation techniques, a discounted cash flow model (income approach) and a market adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (market approach), with each method being equally weighted in the calculation. in step 2, the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, was the price paid to acquire that reporting unit. recoverability of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the intangible assets to the estimated fair value of the respective intangible assets. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. the calculation of estimated fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. the determination of the estimated fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. we developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. 2011 impairment test as a result of the planned divestiture of hussmann, we were required to test goodwill within the climate solutions segment for impairment in the first quarter of 2011, and no impairment charge was required. based on year to date operational results, and management turnover within the residential hvac reporting unit, we updated our fair value assessment of the reporting unit in the third quarter of 2011 and noted that the fair value of the reporting unit continued to exceed its carrying amount. for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2011, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. 38 table of contents goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 12.0% to 17.0% and terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 4.0% . under the market approach, we used an adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except two, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15% . the two reporting units with a percentage of carrying value less than 15%, reported within the residential solutions and security technologies segments, exceeded their carrying value by 5.8% and 10.9% , respectively. these reporting units have goodwill of approximately $ 599 million and $ 198 million , respectively. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 12.5% to 14.5%, terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 3.0% to 5.0%. the fair values of two of our tradenames exceeded their respective carrying amounts by less than 15%. the two tradenames, reported within the climate solutions and residential solutions segments, exceeded their carrying value by 7.3% and 11.6%. the carrying values of these tradenames are approximately $2,497 million and $105 million. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on their estimated fair values. 2010 impairment test for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2010, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates generally ranging from 11.5% to 18% and terminal growth rates generally ranging from 2.5% to 4% . under the market approach, we used an adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except three, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15% . the three reporting units with a percentage of carrying value less than 15%, reported within the climate solutions segment, exceeded their carrying value by 4.4% , 9.4% , and 10.8% . these reporting units have goodwill of approximately $ 243 million , $ 1,075 million , and $ 561 million , respectively. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 12.0% to 14.0%, terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 2.0% to 5.0%. the fair values of two of our tradenames exceeded their respective carrying amounts by less than 15%. the two tradenames, reported within the climate solutions, residential solutions and security technologies segments, exceeded their carrying value by 6.9% and 5.6%, respectively. the carrying values of these tradenames are approximately $2,497 million and $9 million. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on their estimated fair values. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. we believe that our use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. loss contingencies liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business, including litigation and administrative proceedings, environmental and asbestos matters and product liability, product warranty, worker's compensation and other claims. we have recorded reserves in the financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience data depending 39 table of contents on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances with consultation of legal counsel, internal and external consultants and engineers. subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, we believe our estimated reserves are reasonable and do not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows for any year. asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. we record a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. although we were neither a manufacturer nor producer of asbestos, some of our formerly manufactured components from third party suppliers utilized asbestos-related components. as a result, we record certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax, as they relate to previously divested businesses. income and expenses associated with trane's asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries are recorded within continuing operations. refer to note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further details of asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized and earned when all of the following criteria are satisfied: (a) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; (b) price is fixed or determinable; (c) collectability is reasonably assured; and (d) delivery has occurred or service has been rendered. delivery generally occurs when the title and the risks and rewards of ownership have substantially transferred to the customer. revenue from maintenance contracts or extended warranties is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, unless another method is more representative of the costs incurred. we enter into agreements that contain multiple elements, such as equipment, installation and service revenue. for multiple-element arrangements, the revenue relating to undelivered elements is deferred until delivery of the deferred elements. we recognize revenue for delivered elements when the delivered item has stand-alone value to the customer, customer acceptance has occurred, and there are only customary refund or return rights related to the delivered elements. revenues from certain of our equipment and the related installation sold under construction-type contracts are recorded using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with gaap. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-u.s. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. we regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. we will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. employee benefit plans we provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retired employees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, employee mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with gaap. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. we review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. a discount rate reflects a rate at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. discount rates for all plans are established using hypothetical yield curves based on the yields of corporate bonds rated aa quality. spot rates are developed from the yield curve and used to discount future benefit payments. prior to 2010, for non-u.s. plans the discount rates were based upon a review of the current yields reported on aa corporate bonds or the yields of high-quality fixed-income investments available and expected to be available during the life of the plans. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan's investment policy, the types of assets 40 table of contents held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of each measurement date. we believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the expected 2012 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $10.5 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by approximately $7.6 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would increase expected 2012 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.9 million and a 1.0% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate would increase the cost by approximately $1.8 million. the preparation of financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions that affect a number of amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. if actual amounts are ultimately different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which the actual amounts become known. historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between our estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. recently adopted accounting pronouncements: in october 2009, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued accounting standards update (asu) 2009-13, "revenue recognition (topic 605): multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements, a consensus of the fasb emerging issues task force," which revised guidance within fasb accounting standards codification (asc) 605, "revenue recognition." these revisions include additional disclosures regarding multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements, such as any significant assumptions made and the effects of the relative selling price method on revenue recognition. the new disclosure requirements were effective for the company as of january 1, 2011. the provisions of asu 2009-13 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and notes. in september 2011, the fasb issued asu 2011-09, compensation - retirement benefits - multiemployer plans (subtopic 715-80). the revised guidance expands the required disclosures of employers on multiemployer pension plan participation, obligations, and funded status. the revised disclosure requirements are reflected in note 10. recently issued accounting pronouncements: in may 2011, the fasb issued asu 2011-04, fair value measurement (topic 820): amendments to achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in u.s. gaap and international financial reporting standards (ifrs)." asu 2011-04 represents converged guidance between gaap and ifrs resulting in common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. this new guidance will be effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2011 and subsequent interim periods. we are currently assessing the impact on our consolidated financial statements. in june 2011, the fasb issued asu 2011-05, presentation of comprehensive income." asu 2011-05 requires us to present components of other comprehensive income and of net income in one continuous statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive statements. the option to report other comprehensive income within the statement of equity has been removed. this new presentation of comprehensive income will be effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2011 and subsequent interim periods. in september 2011, the fasb issued asu 2011-08, testing goodwill for impairment. this revised standard provides entities with the option to first use an assessment of qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. if a conclusion is reached that reporting unit fair value is not more likely than not below carrying value, no further impairment testing is necessary. this revised guidance applies to fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2011, and the related interim and annual goodwill impairment tests. we do not believe it will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. to manage certain of those exposures, we use derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts. derivative instruments utilized by us in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. 41 table of contents foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. we actively manage the currency exposures that are associated with purchases and sales and other assets and liabilities at the operating unit level. exposures that cannot be naturally offset to an insignificant amount are hedged with foreign currency derivatives. we also have non-u.s. currency net asset exposures, which we currently do not hedge with a derivative instrument. we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2011 , a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $ 110.9 million , as compared with $ 53.5 million at december 31, 2010 . these amounts, when realized, would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying currency transactions. commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2011 . interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates would not have a material effect on our results of operations. 42 table of contentsrisk factors 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 45 backlog our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at december 31 , was as follows: in millions 2012 2011 climate solutions $ 1,444.6 $ 1,395.8 residential solutions 49.1 42.8 industrial technologies 481.1 489.5 security technologies 159.6 135.1 total $ 2,134.4 $ 2,063.2 these backlog figures are based on orders received. while the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. we expect to ship substantially all the december 31, 2012 backlog during 2013 . environmental matters we continue to be dedicated to an environmental program intended to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process as well as to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the environmental protection agency and similar state authorities. we have been also identified as a potentially responsible party (prp) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal superfund and state remediation sites. for all such sites, there are other prps and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal. in estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other prps who may be jointly and severally liable. the ability of other prps to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties' financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future. we incurred $ 4.5 million , $ 3.1 million , and $1.0 million of expenses during the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 , and 2010 , respectively, for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $ 65.9 million and $ 70.9 million , respectively. of these amounts $ 47.3 million and $ 51.3 million , respectively, relate to remediation of sites previously disposed by us. our total current environmental reserve at december 31, 2012 and 2011 was $ 22.2 million and $ 26.1 million , respectively. given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain. for a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters as well as note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. 7 table of contents asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in u.s. state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims have been filed against either ingersoll-rand company (ir-new jersey) or trane u.s. inc. (trane) and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. we incurred net costs after insurance recoveries of $4.4 million , $10.1 million , and $18.8 million during the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 , and 2010 , respectively, related to the settlement and defense of asbestos-related claims. our total liability for asbestos-related matters and our total asset for probable asbestos-related insurance recoveries were $879.5 million and $320.3 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2012 and $938.3 million and $322.4 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2011 . our total current liability for asbestos-related matters and our total current asset for probable asbestos-related insurance recoveries was $69.1 million and $22.5 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2012 and $69.7 million and $23.5 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2011 . see also the discussion under part i, item 3, legal proceedings, and part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters as well as further detail in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. employees as of december 31, 2012 , we employed approximately 49,000 people throughout the world. available information we file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934. the public may read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov. in addition, this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the board of directors of the company has also adopted and posted in the investor relations section of the company's website our corporate governance guidelines and charters for each of the board's standing committees. the contents of the company's website are not incorporated by reference in this report. certifications new york stock exchange annual chief executive officer certification the company's chief executive officer submitted to the new york stock exchange the annual ceo certification as the company's compliance with the new york stock exchange's corporate governance listing standards required by section 303a.12 of the new york stock exchange's listing standards. sarbanes-oxley act section 302 certification the certifications of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the company pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a . risk factors our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks set forth below are those we consider most significant. we face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material but could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations. you should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. in that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 8 table of contents our global operations subject us to economic risks. our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the u.s. and internationally, including europe, china, brazil, venezuela, africa, india and turkey. these activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: changes in local laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints; limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; sovereign debt crisis and currency instability in developed and developing countries; imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas; difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and economic downturns and social and political instability. these risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services. we must develop and commercialize new products and services in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. the development and commercialization of new products and services require a significant investment of resources. we cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. we also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by the market. failure to develop new products and services that are accepted by the market could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the capital and credit markets are important to our business. instability in u.s. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. in particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategy, including our new $2 billion share repurchase program and our commitment to refinance our short-term debt maturities and raise additional borrowings. our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. see part ii item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. more than 40% of our 2012 net revenues were derived outside the u.s., and we expect sales to non-u.s. customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues. although we enter into currency exchange contracts to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time may, in some instances, have a material impact on our results of operations. because we do not hedge against all of our currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to currency fluctuations. we also translate assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements based on the applicable exchange rates. consequently, fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar versus other currencies could have a material impact on the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. 9 table of contents material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other contingencies may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any improper conduct could damage our reputation and subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. we may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. we rely extensively on information technology systems to manage and operate our business. we are also investing in new information technology systems that are designed to continue improving our operations. if these systems cease to function properly or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we currently rely on a single vendor for substantially all of our global information technology infrastructure and its failure to provide effective support for such infrastructure could negatively impact our business and financial results. we have outsourced substantially all of our global information technology infrastructure to a third-party service provider in order to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. the service provider has initiated arbitration proceedings against us regarding the terms, nature and performance of the information technology services agreement. if the service provider does not perform or does not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected efficiencies and may have to incur additional costs to address failures in providing service by the service provider. depending on the function involved, such non-performance, failure to perform effectively or failures of service may lead to business disruptions, processing inefficiencies or security breaches. such disruptions, inefficiencies or breaches could negatively impact our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our information technology infrastructure is important to our business and data security breaches or disruptions of such infrastructure could negatively impact our business and financial results. our information technology infrastructure is subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized security intrusions. despite instituting security policies and business continuity plans, our systems and networks may be vulnerable to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events that could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation. such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. commodity shortages and price increases and higher energy prices could adversely affect our financial results. we rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. a disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against this volatility. while we use fixed price contracts to mitigate this exposure, we expect any future hedging activity to seek to minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices which would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases. 10 table of contents additionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations in the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products, and supplying services, to customers around the world. consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. our operational excellence efforts may not achieve the improvements we expect. we utilize a number of tools, such as lean six sigma, to improve operational efficiency and productivity. implementation of new processes to our operations could cause disruptions and there is no assurance that all of our planned operational excellence projects will be fully implemented or, if implemented, will realize the expected improvements. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. at december 31, 2012 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $ 6.1 billion and $ 2.6 billion , respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods recognized. changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect certain segments of the company's business and impact overall results of operations. demand for certain segments of the company's products and services is influenced by weather conditions. for instance, trane's sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of the company's business and impact overall results of operations. continued weakness in the commercial and residential construction markets may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. our commercial and residential hvac and security businesses, which collectively represent 66% of our net revenues, provide products and services to a wide range of markets, including significant sales to the commercial and residential construction markets. weakness in either or both of these construction markets may negatively impact the demand for our products and services. decrease in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. our operations are subject to regulatory risks. our u.s. and non-u.s. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety. we have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. in addition, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions. if we are unable to effectively respond to changes to applicable laws and regulations or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. if the distribution of wabco's shares by trane on july 31, 2007 were to fail to qualify as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code (the code ), then trane may be required to pay u.s. federal income taxes. trane received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that the distribution of wabco shares to its shareholders qualified as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the code. trane also received an opinion of skadden, arps, slate, meagher &amp; flom, llp, at the time of the distribution, as to the tax-free nature of the transaction. moreover, in connection with our subsequent acquisition of trane, we received an opinion of simpson, thacher &amp; bartlett llp, substantially to the effect that the distribution should continue to qualify as tax-free to trane, wabco and trane shareholders under section 355 and related provisions of the code. the ruling and opinions were based on, among other things, certain assumptions as well as on the accuracy of certain factual representations and statements made by the company, wabco and trane. in rendering its ruling, the irs also relied on certain covenants that trane and wabco entered into, including the adherence to certain restrictions on wabco's and trane's future actions. 11 table of contents notwithstanding the private letter ruling or the opinions of counsel, there can be no assurance that the irs will not later assert that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction. if the wabco distribution is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of wabco's common stock distributed to the trane shareholders over (ii) trane's tax basis in such common stock. we have a tax sharing agreement with wabco under which wabco would be responsible for all taxes imposed on trane as a result of the distribution except where taxes are imposed as a result of actions taken after the distribution by trane or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders. if wabco was unable to satisfy its obligations under the tax sharing agreement or if trane was unable to rely on the tax sharing agreement for any reason, any potential liability arising from the distribution of wabco's shares by trane could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. risks relating to our proposed spin-off the proposed spin-off of our commercial and residential security businesses is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management and may have an adverse effect on us even if not completed. on december 10, 2012, we announced our plan to spin off our commercial and residential security businesses. the proposed spin-off is subject to various conditions, is complex in nature and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. completion of the spin-off will be contingent upon customary conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals, receipt of a ruling from the irs as to the tax-free nature of the spin-off, as well as certain other matters relating to the spin-off, receipt of legal opinions, execution of intercompany agreements, effectiveness of appropriate filings with the sec, and final approval of the transactions contemplated by the spin-off, as may be required under irish law. for these and other reasons, the spin-off transaction may not be completed as expected by the fourth calendar quarter of 2013, if at all. even if the spin-off is not completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we will be subject to certain risks and consequences, including the following: execution of the proposed spin-off will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract management from the operation of our businesses and the execution of other initiatives that may have been beneficial to us. our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off. some of our suppliers or customers may delay or defer decisions or may end their relationships with us or our commercial and residential security businesses, which could negatively affect revenues, earnings and cash flows of the company and our commercial and residential security businesses. we will be required to pay certain costs and expenses relating to the spin-off, such as legal, accounting and other professional fees, whether or not it is completed. we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete the spin-off. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and trading price. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off. although we believe that separating our commercial and residential security businesses by means of the spin-off will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our shareholders, the spin-off may not provide the results on the scope or on the scale we anticipate, and the assumed benefits of the spin-off may not be fully realized. accordingly, the spin-off might not provide us and our shareholders benefits or value in excess of the benefits and value that might have been created or realized had we retained the commercial and residential security businesses or undertaken another strategic alternative involving such businesses. if the proposed spin-off of our commercial and residential security businesses is completed, the trading price of our ordinary shares will decline and may experience greater volatility. we expect the trading price of our ordinary shares immediately following the spin-off to be significantly lower than immediately prior to the spin-off because the trading price for our shares will no longer reflect the value of our commercial and residential security businesses. in addition, until the market has fully analyzed the company's value without our commercial and residential security businesses, the price of our shares may experience greater volatility. if the proposed spin-off is completed, our shares may not match some holders' investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices or portfolios, which could cause investors to sell their shares. excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of our shares to decrease further following the completion of the proposed spin-off. 12 table of contents following the spin-off, the value of your ordinary shares in the company and the commercial and residential security businesses may collectively trade at an aggregate price less than that at which the company's ordinary shares might trade had the spin-off not occurred. for a number of reasons, the ordinary shares of the company and the commercial and residential security businesses that you may hold following the spin-off may collectively trade at a value significantly less than the price at which the company's ordinary shares might have traded had the spin-off not occurred and we continued to own the commercial and residential security businesses. these reasons include the future performance of the company and the commercial and residential security businesses as separate, independent companies, and the future shareholder base and market for the company's ordinary shares and the shares of our commercial and residential security businesses and the prices at which these shares individually trade. the proposed spin-off transaction could result in substantial tax liability we will request a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify under sections 355 and/or 368 of the code. our receipt of the private letter ruling will be a condition to the completion of the spin-off. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. furthermore, the irs will not rule on whether a distribution such as the spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. rather, the private letter ruling will be based on representations by us that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. the spin-off will also be conditioned on our receipt of one or more opinions of outside advisors, in form and substance satisfactory to us, substantially to the effect that, certain requirements, including requirements that the irs will not rule on, necessary to obtain tax free treatment have been satisfied such that the spin-off and certain related transactions should qualify under sections 355, 368 and other provisions of the code. the opinion(s) will rely on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the commercial and residential security businesses and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such advisors in their opinion(s). the opinion(s) will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion(s) or that any such challenge would not prevail. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion(s), the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each u.s. holder of our ordinary shares who receives shares of the commercial and residential security businesses in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of the new security company received. that distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the applicable shareholder's tax basis in our ordinary shares with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. in addition, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion(s), if the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction and/or certain related internal transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, we could incur a substantial tax liability, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to our past reorganizations we effected a corporate reorganization in december 2001 to become a bermuda company (the bermuda reorganization) and a subsequent corporate reorganization in july 2009 to become an irish public limited company. these reorganizations exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations will be realized. changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under u.s. or non-u.s. tax laws or adverse determinations by taxing authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. tax authorities or non-u.s. tax authorities. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for instance, recent u.s. legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident for u.s. tax purposes, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations. there are other recent u.s. legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. moreover, other u.s. legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our u.s. subsidiaries to our non-u.s. affiliates, which could increase our tax liability. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation in any jurisdiction. 13 table of contents while we monitor proposals that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax law is challenged and determined to be incorrect. in particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the ireland reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation. while our u.s. operations are subject to u.s. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-u.s. operations are generally not subject to u.s. tax other than withholding taxes. the irs or a court, however, may not concur with our conclusions including our determination that we, and a significant number of our foreign subsidiaries, are not currently controlled foreign corporations (cfc) within the meaning of the u.s. tax laws. a contrary determination, which could also arise through significant future acquisitions of our stock by u.s. persons, could also potentially cause u.s. holders (direct, indirect or constructive owners) of 10% or more of our stock (or the voting stock of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) to include in their gross income their pro rata share of certain of our and our non-u.s. subsidiary income for the period during which we (and our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc. in addition, gain (or a portion of such gain) realized on cfc shares sold by such shareholders may be treated as ordinary income depending on certain facts. treatment of us or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries as a cfc could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. as described further in legal proceedings , we have received several notices from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001-2002 tax years. the irs has not contested the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda in any of these notices. we have and intend to continue to vigorously contest these proposed adjustments. although the outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for this matter and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. as we move forward to resolve this matter with the irs, the reserves established may be adjusted. although we continue to contest the irs's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. if the irs's position with respect to 2002 is ultimately sustained it will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although we expect them to do so, at this time the irs has not yet proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2002 as the federal income tax audits for those years are still in process or have not yet begun. it is unclear how the irs will apply their position to subsequent years or whether the irs will take a similar position with respect to other intercompany debt instruments. the inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our reorganizations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. legislative and regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us. the u.s. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to u.s. companies that reincorporate outside of the u.s. or have reincorporated outside of the u.s. for instance, the homeland security act of 2002, as amended, includes a provision that prohibits inverted domestic corporations and their subsidiaries from entering into contracts with the department of homeland security. in addition, the state of california adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain non-u.s. chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts. more recently, the 2008, 2009 and 2010 consolidated appropriations acts prohibit any federal government agency from using funds appropriated by congress for fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010 to pay an inverted domestic corporation or any of its subsidiaries for work performed or products provided under certain federal contracts ( affected contracts ). although the amount of monies already paid to us or to be paid to us under the affected contracts is not material to the company, we cannot provide any assurance that the impact of future actions taken by the government in this area will not be materially adverse to our operations. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct business in the united states and in other countries but have changed their place of incorporation to another country. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on u.s. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the 14 table of contents company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. in addition, irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. also, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. these authorizations must be renewed by the shareholders every five years and we cannot guarantee that these authorizations will always be approved. dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, we are required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. in the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the united states will not be subject to irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain irish dividend withholding tax forms. however, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ir-ireland. our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ir-ireland. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties as of december 31, 2012 , we owned or leased a total of approximately 17 million square feet of space worldwide. manufacturing and assembly operations are conducted in 63 plants across the world. we also maintain various warehouses, offices and repair centers throughout the world. the majority of our plant facilities are owned by us with the remainder under long-term lease arrangements. we believe that our plants have been well maintained, are generally in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. 15 table of contents the locations by segment of our principal plant facilities at december 31, 2012 were as follows: climate solutions americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific curitiba, brazil kolin, czech republic zhong shan, china arecibo, puerto rico charmes, france taicang, china fort smith, arkansas golbey, france penang, malaysia pueblo, colorado galway, ireland samuthprakarn, thailand lynn haven, florida barcelona, spain macon, georgia rushville, indiana lexington, kentucky minneapolis, minnesota hastings, nebraska columbia, south carolina clarksville, tennessee waco, texas la crosse, wisconsin residential solutions americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific ensenada, mexico monterrey, mexico tecate, mexico tijuana, mexico fort smith, arkansas vidalia, georgia trenton, new jersey tyler, texas industrial technologies americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific dorval, canada unicov, czech republic changzhou, china augusta, georgia douai, france guilin, china campbellsville, kentucky wasquehal, france nanjing, china mocksville, north carolina oberhausen, germany wujiang, china southern pines, north carolina fogliano redipuglia, italy ahmedabad, india west chester, pennsylvania vignate, italy ghaziabad, india seattle, washington logatec, slovenia 16 table of contents security technologies americas europe, middle east, africa asia pacific security, colorado sittingbourne, england shanghai, china princeton, illinois feuquieres, france indianapolis, indiana durchausen, germany cincinnati, ohio renchen, germany faenza, italy monsampolo, italy duzce, turkey item 3. legal proceedings in the normal course of business, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, including commercial and contract disputes, employment matters, product liability claims, asbestos-related claims, environmental liabilities, intellectual property disputes, and tax-related matters. in our opinion, pending legal matters are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. tax related matters in 2007, we received a notice from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years. the irs did not contest the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda. the most significant adjustments proposed by the irs involve treating the entire intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda as equity. as a result of this recharacterization, the irs disallowed the deduction of interest paid on the debt and imposed dividend withholding taxes on the payments denominated as interest. the irs also asserted an alternative argument to be applied if the intercompany debt is respected as debt. in that circumstance, the irs proposed to ignore the entities that hold the debt and to which the interest was paid, and impose 30% withholding tax on a portion of the interest payments as if they were made directly to a company that was not eligible for reduced u.s. withholding tax under a u.s. income tax treaty. the irs asserted under this alternative theory that we owe additional taxes with respect to 2002 of approximately $ 84 million plus interest. we strongly disagreed with the view of the irs and filed a protest with the irs. in 2010, we received an amended notice from the irs eliminating its assertion that the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda should be treated as equity. however, the irs continues to assert the alternative position described above and proposes adjustments to our 2002 tax filings. if this alternative position is upheld, the company would be required to record additional charges. in addition, the irs also provided notice that it is assessing penalties of 30% on the asserted underpayment of tax described above. we have and intend to continue to vigorously contest these proposed adjustments. we, in consultation with our outside advisors, carefully considered the form and substance of our intercompany financing arrangements, including the actions necessary to qualify for the benefits of the applicable u.s. income tax treaties. we believe that these financing arrangements are in accordance with the laws of the relevant jurisdictions including the u.s., that the entities involved should be respected and that the interest payments qualify for the u.s. income tax treaty benefits claimed. although the outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position, we believe that we have adequately reserved for this matter and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. as we move forward to resolve this matter with the irs, the reserves established may be adjusted. although we continue to contest the irs's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. if the irs's position with respect to 2002 is ultimately sustained it will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although we expect them to do so, at this time the irs has not yet proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2002 as the federal income tax audits for those years are still in process or have not yet begun. it is unclear how the irs will apply their position to subsequent years or whether the irs will take a similar position with respect to other intercompany debt instruments. for a further discussion of tax matters, see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos-related matters certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims have been filed against either ir-new jersey or trane u.s. inc. (trane) and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake 17 table of contents shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters and also note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. 18 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following is a list of executive officers of the company as of february 14, 2013 . name and age date of service as an executive officer principal occupation and other information for past five years michael w. lamach (49) 2/16/2004 chairman of the board (since june 2010) and chief executive officer and president (since february 2010); president and chief operating officer (2009-2010); senior vice president and president, trane commercial systems (2008-2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2004-2008) steven r. shawley (60) 8/1/2005 senior vice president and chief financial officer (since june 2008); senior vice president and president, climate control technologies (2005-2008) marcia j. avedon (51) 2/7/2007 senior vice president, human resources and communications (since february 2007) paul a. camuti (51) 8/1/2011 senior vice president, innovation and chief technology officer (since august 2011); president, smart grid applications, siemens energy, inc. (an energy technology subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2010 -2011); president, research division, siemens corporation (a diversified global technology company) (2009 - 2010); president and chief executive officer, siemens corporate research, inc. (the research subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2005 - 2009) john w. conover iv (58) 7/1/2009 senior vice president and president, security technologies (since july 2009); president, trane commercial systems, americas (2005-2009) robert l. katz (50) 11/1/2010 senior vice president and general counsel (since november 2010); federal- mogul corporation (a global automotive supplier), senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary (2007-2010) gary s. michel (50) 8/1/2011 senior vice president and president, residential solutions (since august 2011); president and chief executive officer, club car (2007 - 2011) didier teirlinck (56) 6/4/2008 senior vice president and president, climate solutions (since october 2009); president, climate control technologies (since june 2008); president, climate control europe (2005-2008) todd d. wyman (45) 11/16/2009 senior vice president, global operations and integrated supply chain (since november 2009); ge transportation (a unit of general electric company), vice president, global supply chain (2007-2009) robert g. zafari (54) 7/1/2010 senior vice president and president, industrial technologies (since july 2010); president, tcs and climate solutions emeia (2009-2010); president, security technologies esa (2007-2008) richard j. weller (56) 9/8/2008 vice president and controller (since september 2008); vice president, finance (2008); vice president, finance, security technologies sector (2005-2008) no family relationship exists between any of the above-listed executive officers of the company. all officers are elected to hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. 19 table of contents item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities information regarding the principal market for our ordinary shares and related shareholder matters is as follows: our ordinary shares are traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir. as of february 1, 2013 , the approximate number of record holders of ordinary shares was 4,359 . the high and low sales price per share and the dividend declared per share for the following periods were as follows: ordinary shares 2012 high low dividend first quarter $ 41.98 $ 31.24 $ second quarter 45.62 38.24 0.16 third quarter 47.71 39.21 0.16 fourth quarter * 50.03 43.85 0.37 2011 high low dividend first quarter $ 49.07 $ 43.97 $ 0.07 second quarter 52.33 42.75 0.12 third quarter 47.22 26.13 0.12 fourth quarter ** 34.18 26.48 0.28 * in december 2012, we declared a dividend of $ 0.21 per ordinary share payable on march 28, 2013 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2013. ** in december 2011, we declared a dividend of $ 0.16 per ordinary share payable on march 30, 2012 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2012. future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the irish companies act. under the irish companies act, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits of ingersoll-rand plc (ir-ireland). in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of ir-ireland are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of ir-ireland's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce ir-ireland's net assets below such aggregate. information regarding equity compensation plans required to be disclosed pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the annual general meeting of shareholders. 20 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the following table provides information with respect to purchases by the company of its ordinary shares during the quarter ended december 31, 2012 : period total number of shares purchased (000's) (a) (b) average price paid per share (a) (b) total number of shares purchased as part of program (000's) (a) approximate dollar value of shares still available to be purchased under the program ($000's) (a) (c) october 1 - october 31 3,802.5 $ 45.33 3,802.1 $ 296,251 november 1 - november 30 3,362.6 46.82 3,362.6 138,808 december 1 - december 31 2,804.4 48.15 2,802.6 3,875 total 9,969.5 $ 46.63 9,967.3 (a) on april 7, 2011, we announced that our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program. based on market conditions, share repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions at the discretion of management. the repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date. (b) we may also reacquire shares outside of the repurchase program from time to time in connection with the surrender of shares to cover taxes on vesting of share based awards. in october and december, 369 and 1,910 shares, respectively, were reacquired in transactions outside the repurchase program. (c) on december 10, 2012, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the current share repurchase program. based on market conditions, share repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions at the discretion of management. the repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date. 21 table of contents performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our ordinary shares with the cumulative total return on (i) the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and (ii) the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index for the five years ended december 31, 2012 . the graph assumes an investment of $100 in our ordinary shares, the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index on december 31, 2007 and assumes the reinvestment of dividends. company/index 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ingersoll rand 100 38 81 107 70 112 s&amp;p 500 100 63 80 92 94 109 s&amp;p 500 industrials index 100 60 73 92 92 106 22 table of contents item 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts: at and for the years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 net revenues $ 14,034.9 $ 14,782.0 $ 14,001.1 $ 13,009.1 $ 12,927.9 net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations 1,024.3 400.0 759.7 488.1 (2,527.6 ) discontinued operations (5.7 ) (56.8 ) (117.5 ) (36.8 ) (97.2 ) total assets 18,492.9 18,844.1 19,990.9 19,991.0 20,924.5 total debt 3,233.0 3,642.6 3,683.9 4,096.6 5,124.1 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 7,147.8 6,924.3 7,964.3 7,071.8 6,661.4 earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic: continuing operations $ 3.37 $ 1.23 $ 2.34 $ 1.52 $ (8.41 ) discontinued operations (0.02 ) (0.17 ) (0.36 ) (0.11 ) (0.32 ) diluted: continuing operations $ 3.30 $ 1.18 $ 2.24 $ 1.48 $ (8.41 ) discontinued operations (0.02 ) (0.17 ) (0.35 ) (0.11 ) (0.32 ) dividends declared per ordinary share $ 0.69 $ 0.59 $ 0.28 $ 0.50 $ 0.72 1. 2008 amounts include the results of trane subsequent to the acquisition date (june 5, 2008 through december 31, 2008). 2. 2008 earnings (loss) from continuing operations include an after-tax, non-cash asset impairment charge of $3.4 billion that was recognized in the fourth quarter. 3. 2011 amounts represent the operating results of the hussmann business and branches through their respective divestiture and transaction dates of september 30, 2011 and november 30, 2011. 4. 2011 earnings (loss) from continuing operations include an after-tax loss on sale and impairment charges related to the hussmann divestiture of $ 546 million . 5. 2011 dividends declared per ordinary share includes a dividend of $ 0.16 per ordinary share, declared in december 2011, and payable on march 30, 2012 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2012. 6. 2012 dividends declared per ordinary share includes a dividend of $ 0.21 per ordinary share, declared in december 2012, and payable on march 28, 2013 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2013. 23 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this annual report. overview organization we are a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables, secure homes and commercial properties, and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. our business segments consist of climate solutions, residential solutions, industrial technologies and security technologies, each with strong brands and leading positions within their respective markets. we generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as club car , ingersoll-rand , schlage , thermo king and trane . to achieve our mission of being a world leader in creating safe, comfortable and efficient environments, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream from parts, service, used equipment and rentals; and to continuously improve the efficiencies and capabilities of the products and services of our businesses. we also continue to focus on operational excellence strategies as a central theme to improving our earnings and cash flows. trends and economic events we are a global corporation with worldwide operations. as a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors, as well as political factors, wherever we operate or do business. our geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of our product sales and services, has helped mitigate the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. given the broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the company. we monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. in addition, our order rates are indicative of future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. in those industry segments where we are a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. current market conditions, including challenges in international markets, continue to impact our financial results. the uneven commercial new construction activity in the united states and europe is negatively impacting the results of our security technologies segment and commercial heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) business. however, we believe the commercial hvac equipment replacement and aftermarket is slowly recovering. we have seen moderate growth in the american and asian industrial markets, and the north american refrigerated transport market. while u.s. residential and consumer markets continue to be a challenge as new single-family housing construction and consumer confidence remain at low levels, we are beginning to see moderate improvements in the u.s. new builder and replacement markets. the residential hvac business also continues to be impacted by a mix shift to units with a lower seasonal energy efficiency rating (seer). as economic conditions stabilize, we expect slight revenue growth along with benefits from restructuring and productivity programs. despite the current market environment, we believe we have a solid foundation of global brands and leading market shares in all of our major product lines. our growing geographic and industry diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service, parts and replacement revenue streams. in addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which we expect will drive our future growth. venezuela devaluation in february 2013, the government of venezuela announced a devaluation of the bolivar, from the preexisting exchange rate of 4.29 bolivars to the u.s. dollar to 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. we have two subsidiaries with significant operations in venezuela. as a result of the devaluation, we are estimating a foreign currency loss of approxima tely $10 million in th e first quarter of 2013. the february devaluation did not impact our 2012 results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. further devaluation of the bolivar could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. for additional information, see part i, item 1(a), risk factors in this form 10-k. 24 table of contents significant events in 2012 proposed spin-off transaction in december 2012, our board of directors announced a plan to spin off our commercial and residential security businesses (the new security company). the separation will result in two standalone companies: ingersoll rand, a world leader in creating comfortable, sustainable and efficient environments through its industrial, transport refrigeration, and hvac businesses; and the new security company, a leading global provider of electronic and mechanical security products and services, delivering comprehensive solutions to commercial and residential customers. this new company's portfolio of brands will include schlage, lcn , von duprin , interflex , cisa , briton , bricard , bocom systems, dexter , kryptonite , falcon and fusion hardware group. we expect the spin-off, which is intended to be tax free to shareholders, to be completed prior to year-end 2013. however, the completion of the spin-off is subject to certain customary conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals, receipt of a ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service as to the tax-free nature of the spin-off, as well as certain other matters relating to the spin-off, receipt of legal opinions, execution of intercompany agreements, effectiveness of appropriate filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, and final approval of the transactions contemplated by the spin-off, as may be required under irish law. there can be no assurance that any separation transaction will ultimately occur, or, if one does occur, its terms or timing. upon completion of the spin-off, ingersoll-rand plc (ir-ireland) will cease to have any ownership interest in the new security company, and the new security company will become an independent publicly traded company. the new security company is anticipated to be an irish public limited company (plc). the disclosures within this management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations do not take into account the proposed spin-off of the commercial and residential security businesses. 2012 dividend increase and 2013 share repurchase program in december 2012, we announced an increase in our quarterly stock dividend from $ 0.16 to $ 0.21 per share beginning with our march 2013 payment. the dividend is payable march 28, 2013, to shareholders of record on march 12, 2013. in december 2012, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the current share repurchase program. the new share repurchase program is expected to begin in 2013. these repurchases will be accounted for as a reduction of ordinary shares and capital in excess of par value as they will be canceled upon repurchase. 2011 share repurchase program in april 2011, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program. on june 8, 2011, we commenced share repurchases under this program. during the year ended december 31, 2012 , we repurchased 18.4 million shares for approximately $ 0.8 billion , excluding commissions. during the year ended december 31, 2011, we repurchased 36.3 million shares for approximately $ 1.2 billion , excluding commissions. these repurchases were accounted for as a reduction of ordinary shares and capital in excess of par value as they were canceled upon repurchase. pension and other postretirement plan amendments on june 8, 2012, our board of directors approved amendments to our retirement plans for certain u.s. and puerto rico non-bargained employees. eligible non-bargained employees hired prior to july 1, 2012 were given a choice of remaining in their respective defined benefit plan until the plan freezes on december 31, 2022 or freezing their accrued benefits in their respective defined benefit plan as of december 31, 2012 and receiving an additional 2% non-matching company contribution into the company's applicable defined contribution plan. eligible employees hired or rehired on or after july 1, 2012 will automatically receive the 2% non-matching company contribution into the applicable defined contribution plan in lieu of participating in the defined benefit plan. beginning january 1, 2023, all eligible employees will receive the 2% non-matching contribution into the applicable defined contribution plan. on february 1, 2012, our board of directors approved amendments to our postretirement medical plan with respect to post-65 retiree medical coverage. effective january 1, 2013, we discontinued offering company-sponsored retiree medical coverage for certain individuals age 65 and older. we transitioned affected individuals to coverage through the individual medicare market and will provide a tax-advantaged subsidy to those retirees eligible for subsidized company coverage that can be used toward reimbursing premiums and other qualified medical expenses for individual medicare supplemental coverage that is purchased through our third-party medicare coordinator. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of these amendments. 25 table of contents significant events in 2011 dividend increase in april 2011, we increased our quarterly stock dividend from $ 0.07 to $ 0.12 per share beginning with our june 2011 payment. in december 2011, we announced an increase in our quarterly stock dividend from $ 0.12 per share to $ 0.16 per share beginning with our march 2012 payment. discontinued operations on december 30, 2011, we completed the divestiture of our security installation and service business, which was sold under the integrated systems and services brand in the united states and canada, to kratos public safety &amp; security solutions, inc. as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. see "divestitures and discontinued operations" within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and also note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our discontinued operations. divested operations on september 30, 2011 and november 30, 2011, we completed transactions to sell our hussmann refrigerated display case business to a newly-formed affiliate (hussmann parent) of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). these transactions included the equipment business and certain of the service branches in the u.s. and canada, and the equipment, service and installation businesses in mexico, chile, australia, new zealand, and japan (hussmann business) and the remaining north american hussmann service and installation branches (hussmann branches). we negotiated the final terms of the transaction to include our ownership of a portion of the common stock of hussmann parent, which represents significant continuing involvement. therefore, the results of hussmann are included in continuing operations for all periods presented, with our ownership interest reported using the equity method of accounting subsequent to september 30, 2011. see "divestitures and discontinued operations" within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and also note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our divested operations. significant events in 2010 discontinued operations on december 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the energy systems brand, to flex energy, inc. as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. on october 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our european refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the koxka brand, to an affiliate of american industrial acquisition corporation (aiac group). as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. see "divestitures and discontinued operations" within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and also note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our discontinued operations. healthcare reform in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the healthcare and education reconciliation bill of 2010 (collectively, the healthcare reform legislation) were signed into law. as a result, effective 2013, the tax benefits available to us are reduced to the extent our prescription drug expenses are reimbursed under the medicare part d retiree drug subsidy program. although the provisions of the healthcare reform legislation relating to the retiree drug subsidy program did not take effect until 2013, we were required to recognize the full accounting impact in our financial statements in the reporting period in which the healthcare reform legislation was enacted. as retiree healthcare liabilities and related tax impacts were already reflected in our financial statements, the healthcare reform legislation resulted in a non-cash charge to income tax expense in the first quarter of 2010 of $ 40.5 million . currently, our retiree medical plans receive the retiree drug subsidy under medicare part d. no later than 2014, a significant portion of the drug coverage will be moved to a medicare-approved employer group waiver plan while retaining the same benefit provisions. this change resulted in an actuarial gain which decreased our december 31, 2010 retiree medical plan liability, as well as the net actuarial losses in other comprehensive income by $ 41.1 million . 26 table of contents results of operations - for the years ended december 31 dollar amounts in millions, except per share data 2012 % of revenues 2011 % of revenues 2010 % of revenues net revenues $ 14,034.9 $ 14,782.0 $ 14,001.1 cost of goods sold (9,758.2 ) 69.5% (10,493.6 ) 71.0% (10,059.9 ) 71.9% selling and administrative expenses (2,776.0 ) 19.8% (2,781.2 ) 18.8% (2,679.8 ) 19.1% gain (loss) on sale/asset impairment 4.5 % (646.9 ) 4.4% % operating income 1,505.2 10.7% 860.3 5.8% 1,261.4 9.0% interest expense (253.5 ) (280.0 ) (283.2 ) other, net 25.0 33.0 32.5 earnings before income taxes 1,276.7 613.3 1,010.7 provision for income taxes (227.0 ) (187.2 ) (228.1 ) earnings from continuing operations 1,049.7 426.1 782.6 discontinued operations, net of tax (5.7 ) (56.8 ) (117.5 ) net earnings 1,044.0 369.3 665.1 less: net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (25.4 ) (26.1 ) (22.9 ) net earnings attributable to ingersoll-rand plc $ 1,018.6 $ 343.2 $ 642.2 diluted net earnings (loss) per ordinary share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations $ 3.30 $ 1.18 $ 2.24 discontinued operations (0.02 ) (0.17 ) (0.35 ) net earnings $ 3.28 $ 1.01 $ 1.89 net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased by 5.1% , or $ 747.1 million , compared with the same period of 2011 , which primarily resulted from the following: pricing 1.6 % volume/product mix 0.3 % currency exchange rates (1.5 )% hussmann (5.5 )% total (5.1 )% the decrease in revenues was primarily driven by the absence of hussmann for the year ended december 31, 2012, which contributed $ 818.5 million of revenue in the same period in 2011. this decrease was partially offset by improved pricing across all segments and higher volumes within the residential solutions and industrial technologies business segments. 27 table of contents net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 5.6% , or $ 780.9 million , compared with the same period of 2010 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 2.7 % pricing 2.7 % currency exchange rates 1.6 % acquisitions/divestitures 0.1 % hussmann * (1.5 )% total 5.6 % * represents the impact of a partial year of operations for the hussmann business and branches in 2011. the increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher volumes and product mix experienced within the climate solutions and industrial technologies business segments, as well as improved pricing and favorable foreign currency impacts across all segments. operating income/margin operating margin for the year ended december 31, 2012 increased to 10.7% from 5.8% for the same period in 2011 . included in operating income for 2011 is a $ 646.9 million loss on sale/asset impairment charge related to the divestiture of hussmann, which had a 4.4 point impact on 2011 operating margin. excluding the loss on sale/asset impairment, operating margin increased by 0.5 points. the increase was primarily due to improved pricing in excess of material inflation and realization of productivity benefits in excess of other inflation across all sectors. these increases were partially offset by increased investment spending, lower volumes in our climate solutions and security technologies business segments, and unfavorable foreign currency impacts. also included in operating income for 2011 is a $ 23 million gain associated with the sale of assets from a restructured business in china. this gain had a 0.2 point impact on operating margin for 2011. operating margin for the year ended december 31, 2011 decreased to 5.8% from 9.0% for the same period in 2010 . included in operating income for 2011 is a $ 646.9 million loss on sale/asset impairment charge related to the divestiture of hussmann, which had a 4.4 point impact on 2011 operating margin. excluding the loss on sale/asset impairment, operating margin increased by 1.2 points. the increase was primarily due to improved pricing in excess of material inflation across all sectors, the realization of productivity benefits in excess of other inflation, and higher volumes in our climate solutions and industrial technologies business segments. these improvements were partially offset by unfavorable volume/product mix within our residential solutions and security technologies segments as well as increased investment spending. also included in operating income for 2011 is a $ 23 million gain associated with the sale of assets from a restructured business in china. this gain had a 0.2 point impact on operating margin for 2011. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased by $ 26.5 million compared with the same period of 2011 as a result of lower average debt balances in 2012 . interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2011 decreased $ 3.2 million compared with the same period of 2010 as a result of lower average debt balances in 2011 . other, net the components of other, net, for the year ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2012 2011 2010 interest income $ 16.3 $ 25.9 $ 15.2 exchange gain (loss) (2.8 ) 2.8 0.9 earnings (loss) from equity investments (5.9 ) (3.5 ) other 17.4 7.8 16.4 other, net $ 25.0 $ 33.0 $ 32.5 for the year ended december 31, 2012 , other, net decreased by $ 8.0 million compared with the same period of 2011 . the decrease in other, net resulted primarily from decreased interest income due to lower average cash balances in 2012 , foreign currency losses, and an equity loss on the hussmann equity investment of $ 5.9 million in 2012 compared to $ 3.5 million in 2011. these 28 table of contents decreases were partially offset by other activity primarily related to adjustments to actual and expected insurance recoveries as a result of a settlement. for the year ended december 31, 2011 , other, net increased by $ 0.5 million compared with the same period of 2010 . the increase in other, net resulted from favorable currency impacts and increased interest income as a result of higher average cash balances during 2011. included within earnings (loss) from equity investments is a $ 3.5 million equity loss on the hussmann equity investment for 2011 incurred subsequent to the hussmann divestiture transaction dates. provision for income taxes the 2012 tax provision of $ 227.0 million included a $2.6 million hussmann-related tax charge. for the year ended december 31, 2012, the effective tax rate, excluding the hussmann loss on sale/asset impairment and the hussmann-related tax charge, was 17.6% compared to 21.9% in 2011, when excluding the hussmann-related tax benefit discussed below. the 2012 tax rate was below the u.s. statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which, in aggregate, have a lower effective rate and a net reduction in non-u.s. valuation allowances, partially offset by net increases in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a non-cash charge to income tax expense related to the required tax accounting between the enactment date of march 30, 2010 and the effective date of january 1, 2013 of the healthcare reform legislation. the 2011 tax provision of $ 187.2 million included an $ 88.9 million hussmann-related tax benefit. for the year ended december 31, 2011, the effective tax rate, excluding the hussmann loss on sale/asset impairment and the hussmann-related tax benefit, was 21.9% compared to 22.6% in 2010. the 2011 tax rate was below the u.s. statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which, in aggregate, have a lower effective rate and net changes in our valuation allowances, partially offset by the accrual of a previously unrecorded future withholding tax liability and net increases in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. included in the 2010 effective rate was a $40.5 million non-cash charge to income tax expense related to the healthcare reform legislation, partially offset by net changes in our valuation allowance. review of business segments the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each segment included in continuing operations. segment operating income is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate the financial performance of the business and as the basis for performance reviews, compensation and resource allocation. for these reasons, we believe that segment operating income represents the most relevant measure of segment profit and loss. we may exclude certain charges or gains from operating income to arrive at a segment operating income that is a more meaningful measure of profit and loss upon which to base our operating decisions. we define segment operating margin as segment operating income as a percentage of net revenues. climate solutions our climate solutions segment delivers energy-efficient refrigeration and hvac throughout the world. encompassing the transport refrigeration markets as well as the commercial hvac markets, this segment offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions to manage controlled temperature environments. this segment includes the market-leading brands of thermo king and trane. on september 30, 2011 and november 30, 2011, we completed transactions to sell hussmann to a newly-formed affiliate (hussmann parent) of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). as part of the deal terms we have an ongoing equity interest in hussmann parent, therefore operating results continue to be recorded within continuing operations. however, subsequent to the respective transaction dates our earnings from this equity interest are not reported in segment operating income. during the year ended december 31, 2011, we recorded a pre-tax loss on sale and asset impairment charges related to the hussmann divestiture totaling $ 646.9 million . these charges, as well as related adjustments recorded in 2012, have been excluded from segment operating income within the climate solutions segment as management excludes these charges from operating income when making operating decisions about the business. see "divestitures and discontinued operations" within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and also note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our divested operations. 29 table of contents 2011 net revenues and segment operating income for the climate solutions segment includes the operating results of the hussmann business and branches prior to the sale. the operating results for the hussmann business and branches are included in net revenues and segment operating income for the climate solutions segment for the years ended december 31 as follows: in millions 2011 2010 net revenues $ 818.5 $ 1,106.1 segment operating income $ 58.6 $ 84.4 on october 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our european refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the koxka brand, to an affiliate of american industrial acquisition corporation (aiac group). as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. segment information has been revised to exclude the results of this business for all periods presented. segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2012 % change 2011 % change 2010 net revenues $ 7,409.1 (10.6)% $ 8,284.6 6.2% $ 7,800.8 segment operating income 768.1 (6.9)% 824.6 37.8% 598.3 segment operating margin 10.4 % 10.0 % 7.7 % 2012 vs 2011 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased by 10.6% or $ 875.5 million , compared with the same period of 2011 , which primarily resulted from the following: pricing 1.4 % volume/product mix (0.6 )% currency exchange rates (1.5 )% hussmann (9.9 )% total (10.6 )% our trane commercial hvac business continues to be impacted by weakness in the worldwide commercial building markets. trane commercial hvac revenues increased as growth within our parts, services and solutions markets offset declines in equipment and systems in europe and asia. net revenues in our transport businesses decreased driven by declines in sea-going container revenues. growth in the americas was more than offset by declines in europe. segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased by 6.9% , or $ 56.5 million , compared with the same period of 2011 . included in 2011 segment operating income is $ 58.6 million of income related to hussmann and a $ 23 million gain associated with the sale of assets from a restructured business in china. segment operating margin improved to 10.4% due to pricing improvements in excess of material inflation ($127 million) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation ($22 million), partially offset by unfavorable volume/product mix ($45 million), increased investment spending ($52 million), and unfavorable currency impacts ($28 million). 2011 vs 2010 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 6.2% or $ 483.8 million , compared with the same period of 2010 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 4.6 % pricing 2.3 % currency exchange rates 1.8 % acquisitions/divestitures 0.1 % hussmann * (2.6 )% total 6.2 % * represents the impact of a partial year of operations for the hussmann business and branches in 2011. 30 table of contents trane commercial hvac revenues reflect market recovery within our equipment, systems, parts, services and solutions markets. trane commercial hvac revenues increased in all major geographic regions, with strong year-over-year improvements in the americas, asia, and europe. net revenues in our transport businesses experienced growth in most geographic areas due to improved activity within the refrigerated trailer and truck markets. in addition, sea-going container revenues and worldwide bus revenues improved due to an increase in end-market activity. segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 37.8% , or $ 226.3 million , compared with the same period of 2010 . the increase, which improved segment operating margin to 10.0% from 7.7% , was primarily related to pricing improvements in excess of material inflation ($36 million), productivity benefits in excess of other inflation ($115 million), and favorable volumes/product mix ($90 million). however, the benefits resulting from these improvements were partially offset by increased investment spending ($28 million) and the impacts of only a partial year of operations for the hussmann business and branches in 2011 ($10 million). included in segment operating income for 2011 was a $ 23 million gain associated with the sale of assets from a restructured business in china. this gain had a 0.3 point impact on segment operating margin. residential solutions our residential solutions segment provides safety, comfort and efficiency to homeowners throughout north america and parts of south america. it offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions including mechanical and electronic locks, energy-efficient hvac systems, indoor air quality solutions, advanced controls, portable security systems and remote home management. this segment is comprised of well-known brands like american standard , schlage and trane. segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2012 % change 2011 % change 2010 net revenues $ 2,054.4 2.1% $ 2,012.7 (5.1)% $ 2,121.7 segment operating income 115.4 85.8% 62.1 (67.5)% 191.3 segment operating margin 5.6 % 3.1 % 9.0 % 2012 vs 2011 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 increased by 2.1% or $ 41.7 million , compared with the same period of 2011 , which primarily resulted from the following: pricing 1.4 % volume/product mix 0.7 % total 2.1 % trane residential hvac revenues increased due to improved activity levels in both the new residential construction and replacement markets. these improvements were slightly offset by a continued mix shift to lower seer units. residential security revenues increased as a result of improved sales to new builder markets and south american customers. segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2012 increased by 85.8% , or $ 53.3 million , compared with the same period of 2011 . the increase, which improved segment operating margin to 5.6% from 3.1% , was primarily driven by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation ($63 million) and pricing improvements in excess of material inflation ($28 million). these improvements were partially offset by unfavorable volume/product mix ($46 million). 2011 vs 2010 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 decreased by 5.1% or $ 109.0 million , compared with the same period of 2010 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix (10.5 )% pricing 5.1 % currency exchange rates 0.3 % total (5.1 )% 31 table of contents trane residential hvac revenues were impacted by continued weakness in the u.s. new residential construction and replacement markets as well as a mix shift to lower seer units. residential security revenues increased as a result of improved sales to new builder markets and big box customers primarily during the fourth quarter. segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2011 decreased by 67.5% , or $ 129.2 million , compared with the same period of 2010 . the decrease, which lowered segment operating margins to 3.1% from 9.0% , was primarily related to unfavorable volumes/product mix ($155 million), partially offset by pricing improvements in excess of material inflation ($41 million). industrial technologies our industrial technologies segment provides products, services and solutions that improve productivity, energy efficiency, safety, and operations. it offers global customers a diverse and innovative range of products including compressed air systems, power tools, pumps, material handling equipment, and golf, utility, and rough terrain vehicles. it also provides a range of service offerings including preventative maintenance and comprehensive care multi-year contracts, service parts, installation, remanufactured compressors and tools, and solutions to optimize customers' energy and total production costs. this segment includes the ingersoll-rand, club car, and aro market-leading brands. on december 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the energy systems brand, to flex energy, inc. as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. segment information has been revised to exclude the results of this business for all periods presented. segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2012 % change 2011 % change 2010 net revenues $ 2,945.8 3.3 % $ 2,852.9 14.8 % $ 2,485.2 segment operating income 455.8 9.7 % 415.5 33.9 % 310.4 segment operating margin 15.5 % 14.6 % 12.5 % 2012 vs 2011 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 increased by 3.3% or $ 92.9 million , compared with the same period of 2011 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 3.9 % pricing 1.7 % currency exchange rates (2.3 )% total 3.3 % we experienced growth within our air and productivity business related to increased volume in the americas, which was offset by declines in europe. the growth in the americas was primarily driven by improved air compressor sales. club car revenues increased due to improved pricing and growth in the golf car and utility vehicle markets. segment operating income increased by 9.7% , or $ 40.3 million , during 2012 . the increase, which improved segment operating margin to 15.5% from 14.6% , was primarily driven by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation ($59 million), pricing improvements in excess of material inflation ($29 million), and favorable volume/product mix ($19 million). these improvements were partially offset by increased investment spending ($52 million) and unfavorable currency impacts ($14 million). 2011 vs 2010 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 14.8% , or $ 367.7 million , compared with the same period of 2010 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 10.3 % pricing 2.7 % currency exchange rates 1.8 % total 14.8 % we experienced strong growth within our air and productivity business primarily due to increased volume in all major geographic regions. the revenue increase in the americas was driven by improvements in our industrial and commercial markets for air 32 table of contents compressors, tools, and fluid handling products. club car revenues also improved relative to the prior year primarily due to improved pricing. segment operating income increased by 33.9% , or $ 105.1 million , during 2011 . the increase, which improved segment operating margin to 14.6% from 12.5% , was primarily related to pricing improvements in excess of material inflation ($20 million), productivity benefits in excess of other inflation ($61 million), and higher volumes and product mix ($60 million). these improvements were partially offset by increased investment spending ($15 million). security technologies our security technologies segment is a leading global provider of products and services that make environments safe, secure and productive. the segment's market-leading products include electronic and biometric access control systems and software, locks and locksets, door closers, exit devices, steel doors and frames, as well as time, attendance and personnel scheduling systems. these products serve a wide range of markets including the commercial construction market, healthcare, retail, and transport industries as well as educational and governmental facilities. this segment includes the cisa, lcn, schlage and von duprin market-leading brands. on december 30, 2011, we completed the divestiture of our security installation and service business, which was sold under the integrated systems and services brand in the united states and canada, to kratos public safety &amp; security solutions, inc. as a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. segment information has been revised to exclude the results of this business for all periods presented. segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2012 % change 2011 % change 2010 net revenues $ 1,625.6 (0.4)% $ 1,631.8 2.4% $ 1,593.4 segment operating income 327.7 (1.2)% 331.6 1.0% 328.3 segment operating margin 20.2 % 20.3 % 20.6 % 2012 vs 2011 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased by 0.4% , or $ 6.2 million , compared with the same period of 2011 , which primarily resulted from the following: pricing 2.1 % currency exchange rates (1.7 )% volume/product mix (0.8 )% total (0.4 )% the impact of the continued weakness in worldwide commercial building markets were partially offset by pricing improvements for our mechanical products. our results reflect declines in europe, partially offset by improvements in the americas and asia. segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased by 1.2% , or $ 3.9 million , compared with the same period of 2011 . the decrease, which lowered segment operating margin to 20.2% from 20.3% , was primarily related to unfavorable volume/product mix ($27 million), increased investment spending ($17 million), and unfavorable currency impacts ($5 million), partially offset by pricing improvements in excess of material inflation ($35 million) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation ($11 million). 2011 vs 2010 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 2.4% , or $ 38.4 million , compared with the same period of 2010 , which primarily resulted from the following: currency exchange rates 1.9 % pricing 1.7 % volume/product mix (1.2 )% total 2.4 % the weakness in worldwide commercial building markets continues to impact segment revenues. however, our results reflect strong improvements in asia, with slight improvements in north america and europe. 33 table of contents segment operating income for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased by 1.0% , or $ 3.3 million , compared with the same period of 2010 . segment operating margin declined to 20.3% from 20.6% . the increase in segment operating income was primarily related to productivity benefits in excess of other inflation ($27 million) and pricing improvements in excess of material inflation ($2 million), partially offset by unfavorable volumes/product mix ($20 million). divestitures and discontinued operations divested operations hussmann divestiture on september 30, 2011, we completed a transaction to sell our hussmann refrigerated display case business to a newly-formed affiliate (hussmann parent) of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). this transaction included the equipment business and certain of the service branches in the u.s. and canada, and the equipment, service and installation businesses in mexico, chile, australia, new zealand, and japan (hussmann business). the final transaction allowed hussmann parent the option to acquire the remaining north american hussmann service and installation branches (hussmann branches). hussmann parent completed the acquisition of the hussmann branches on november 30, 2011. the hussmann business and branches, which are reported as part of the climate solutions segment, manufacture, market, distribute, install, and service refrigerated display merchandising equipment, refrigeration systems, over the counter parts, and other commercial and industrial refrigeration applications. the hussmann business divestiture was originally announced on april 21, 2011 and met the criteria for classification as held for sale treatment in accordance with gaap during the first quarter of 2011. during the third quarter of 2011, we negotiated the final transaction to sell the hussmann business and branches to cd&amp;r in exchange for $ 370 million in cash, subject to purchase price adjustments, and common stock of hussmann parent, such that following the sale, cd&amp;r would own cumulative convertible participating preferred stock of hussmann parent, initially representing 60% of the outstanding capital stock (on an as-converted basis) of hussmann parent, and we would own all of the common stock, initially representing the remaining 40% of the outstanding capital stock (on an as-converted basis) of hussmann parent. our ownership of common stock of hussmann parent represents significant continuing involvement. therefore, the results of the hussmann business and branches are included in continuing operations for all periods presented. based on these terms, we recorded a total pre-tax loss on sale/asset impairment charge of $ 646.9 million during the full year of 2011. results for the hussmann business and branches for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2011* 2010 net revenues $ 818.5 $ 1,106.1 gain (loss) on sale/asset impairment (646.9 ) ** net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc (513.1 ) 55.7 diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: (1.51 ) 0.16 * results represent the operating results of hussmann business and branches through their respective divestiture transaction dates. ** included in gain (loss) on sale/asset impairment for the year ended december 31, 2011 are transaction costs of $ 12.2 million . hussmann parent is required to pay a quarterly preferred dividend payment to cd&amp;r in the form of cash or additional preferred shares. our ownership percentage as of december 31, 2012 was 37.2% . our ownership interest in hussmann parent is reported using the equity method of accounting subsequent to september 30, 2011. our equity investment in the hussmann parent is reported within other noncurrent assets and the related equity earnings reported in other, net within net earnings. 34 table of contents discontinued operations the components of discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2012 2011 2010 net revenues $ $ 72.2 $ 143.6 pre-tax earnings (loss) from operations (49.2 ) (69.0 ) (173.4 ) pre-tax gain (loss) on sale 2.3 (57.7 ) (5.4 ) tax benefit (expense) 41.2 69.9 61.3 discontinued operations, net of tax $ (5.7 ) $ (56.8 ) $ (117.5 ) discontinued operations by business for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2012 2011 2010 integrated systems and services, net of tax $ (2.8 ) $ (6.3 ) $ (0.8 ) energy systems, net of tax (0.2 ) 0.2 (17.6 ) koxka, net of tax 0.5 (3.3 ) (54.0 ) other discontinued operations, net of tax (3.2 ) (47.4 ) (45.1 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ (5.7 ) $ (56.8 ) $ (117.5 ) integrated systems and services divestiture on december 30, 2011, we completed the divestiture of our security installation and service business, which was sold under the integrated systems and services brand in the united states and canada, to kratos public safety &amp; security solutions, inc. this business, which was previously reported as part of the security technologies segment, designs, installs and services security systems. we reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. during 2011, we recorded a pre-tax loss on sale of $ 6.7 million ($ 5.0 million after-tax) within discontinued operations. net revenues and after-tax earnings of the integrated systems and services business for the year ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2012 2011 2010 net revenues $ $ 72.2 $ 78.0 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ (1.2 ) $ (1.3 ) $ (0.8 ) gain (loss) on sale, net of tax (1.6 ) (5.0 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ (2.8 ) $ (6.3 ) $ (0.8 ) energy systems divestiture on december 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the energy systems brand, to flex energy, inc. the business, which was previously reported as part of the industrial technologies segment, designs, manufactures, markets, distributes, and services gas powered microturbine generators which feature energy efficient design and low emissions technology. during 2010, we recognized an $ 8.3 million after-tax impairment loss within discontinued operations related to the write-down of the net assets to their estimated fair value. 35 table of contents net revenues and after-tax earnings of the energy systems business for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2012 2011 2010 net revenues $ $ $ 8.9 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ (0.2 ) $ (0.4 ) $ (14.4 ) * gain (loss) on sale, net of tax 0.6 (3.2 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ (0.2 ) $ 0.2 $ (17.6 ) * included in discontinued operations for energy systems in 2010 is an after-tax impairment loss of $ 8.3 million related to the initial write-down of the net assets to their estimated fair value. koxka divestiture on october 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our european refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the koxka brand, to an affiliate of american industrial acquisition corporation (aiac group). the business, which was previously reported as part of the climate solutions segment, designs, manufactures and markets commercial refrigeration equipment through sales branches and a network of distributors throughout europe, africa and the middle east. during 2010, we recognized a $ 53.9 million after-tax impairment loss within discontinued operations related to the write-down of the net assets to their estimated fair value. net revenues and after-tax earnings of the koxka business for years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2012 2011 2010 net revenues $ $ $ 56.7 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ 0.5 $ (3.3 ) $ (53.1 ) * gain (loss) on sale, net of tax (0.9 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ 0.5 $ (3.3 ) $ (54.0 ) * included in discontinued operations for koxka for 2010 is an after-tax impairment loss of $ 53.9 million related to the write-down of the net assets to their estimated fair value. also included in 2010 is a $ 12.2 million tax benefit resulting from a reduction in the company's deferred tax asset valuation allowance for net operating losses. other discontinued operations the components of other discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2012 2011 2010 retained costs, net of tax $ (17.2 ) $ (31.8 ) $ (45.0 ) net gain (loss) on disposals, net of tax 14.0 (15.6 ) (0.1 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ (3.2 ) $ (47.4 ) $ (45.1 ) on november 30, 2007, we completed the sale of our bobcat, utility equipment and attachments businesses (collectively, compact equipment) to doosan infracore for gross proceeds of approximately $ 4.9 billion , subject to post-closing purchase price adjustments. compact equipment manufactured and sold compact equipment, including skid-steer loaders, compact track loaders, mini-excavators and telescopic tool handlers; portable air compressors, generators and light towers; general-purpose light construction equipment; and attachments. we were in dispute regarding post-closing matters with doosan infracore. during the second quarter of 2011, we collected approximately $ 48.3 million of our outstanding receivable from doosan infracore related to certain purchase price adjus tments. during the second quarter of 2012, doosan infracore paid the company a total of $ 46.5 million to settle the outstanding receivable and remaining disputed post-closing matters. other discontinued operations, net of tax from previously sold businesses is mainly related t o postretirement benefits, product liability, worker's compensation, and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related) and tax effects of post-closing purchase price adjustments. liquidity and capital resources we earn a significant amount of our operating income in jurisdictions where it is deemed to be permanently reinvested. our most prominent jurisdiction of operation is the u.s. we currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate funds to the u.s., and no provision for u.s. income taxes has been made with respect to such earnings. we expect existing cash and cash equivalents available to the u.s., the cash generated by our u.s. operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access 36 table of contents the capital markets will be sufficient to fund our u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. in addition, we expect existing non-u.s. cash and cash equivalents and the cash generated by our non-u.s. operations will be sufficient to fund our non-u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. should we require more capital in the u.s. than is generated by our u.s. operations, and we determine that repatriation of non-u.s. cash is necessary, such amounts would be subject to u.s. federal income taxes. d uring the year ended december 31, 2012, we repurchased 18.4 million shares for approximately $ 0.8 billion , excluding commissions, under our current share repurchase program. these repurchases were accounted for as a reduction of ordinary shares and capital in excess of par value as they were canceled upon repurchase. in december 2012, we announced an increase in our quarterly ordinary share dividend from $ 0.16 to $ 0.21 per share beginning with our march 2013 payment. in addition, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the current share repurchase program. these repurchases will be accounted for as a reduction of ordinary shares and capital in excess of par value as they will be canceled upon repurchase. we expect to commence purchases under this new repurchase program in 2013. we expect our available cash flow, committed credit lines and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to fund the increased dividend and share repurchases. in addition to the capital needs discussed above, we have debt maturities of $600 million of 6.0% senior notes in august 2013 and $655 million of 9.5% senior notes in april 2014, which we expect to refinance prior to maturity. liquidity the following table contains several key measures to gauge our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended december 31: in millions 2012 2011 2010 cash and cash equivalents $ 882.1 $ 1,160.7 $ 1,014.3 short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt 963.7 763.3 761.6 long-term debt 2,269.3 2,879.3 2,922.3 total debt 3,233.0 3,642.6 3,683.9 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 7,147.8 6,924.3 7,964.3 total equity 7,229.3 7,012.4 8,059.1 debt-to-total capital ratio 30.9 % 34.2 % 31.3 % short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt at december 31 consisted of the following: in millions 2012 2011 debentures with put feature $ 343.0 $ 343.6 exchangeable senior notes 341.2 6.000% senior notes due 2013 600.0 other current maturities of long-term debt 10.8 12.5 other short-term borrowings 9.9 66.0 total $ 963.7 $ 763.3 commercial paper program the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, under the commercial paper program is $ 2 billion as of december 31, 2012 . under the commercial paper program, ingersoll-rand global holding company limited (ir-global), may issue notes from time to time, and the proceeds of the financing will be used for general corporate purposes. each of ir-ireland, ingersoll-rand company limited (ir-limited), and ingersoll-rand international holding limited (ir-international) has provided an irrevocable and unconditional guarantee for the notes issued under the commercial paper program. we had no commercial paper outstanding at december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011 . 37 table of contents debentures with put feature at december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011 , we had outstanding $343.0 million and $ 343.6 million , respectively, of fixed rate debentures which only require early repayment at the option of the holder. these debentures contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. if exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder's option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. if these options are not exercised, the final maturity dates would range between 2027 and 2028 . on february 15, 2012, holders of these debentures had the option to exercise the put feature on $ 37.2 million of the outstanding debentures. no holder chose to exercise the put feature at that date. on october 15, 2012, holders of these debentures had the option to exercise the put feature on $ 306.4 million of the outstanding debentures. holders chose to exercise the put feature on $ 0.6 million of the outstanding debentures at that date, and were paid in november 2012. based on our cash flow forecast and access to the capital markets, we believe we will have sufficient liquidity to repay any amounts exercised as a result of the put features. exchangeable senior notes due 2012 in april 2009, we issued $ 345 million of 4.5% exchangeable senior notes (the notes) through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. we settled all remaining outstanding notes during 2012. as a result, we paid $ 357.0 million in cash and issued 10.8 million ordinary shares to settle the principal, interest and equity portion of the notes. other on may 26, 2010, we entered into a 3-year, $ 1.0 billion revolving credit facility through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. on march 15, 2012, this credit facility was refinanced with a 5-year, $ 1.0 billion revolving credit facility maturing on march 15, 2017 . we also have a 4-year, $1.0 billion revolving credit facility maturing on may 20, 2015 , through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. each of ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international has provided an irrevocable and unconditional guarantee for these credit facilities. the total committed revolving credit facilities of $ 2.0 billion are unused and provide support for our commercial paper program as well as for other general corporate purposes. in addition, other available non-u.s. lines of credit were $ 933.3 million , of which $ 705.4 million was unused at december 31, 2012 . these lines provide support for bank guarantees, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes. pension plans our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. we seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contribution and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. prior to 2011, we utilized asset/liability modeling studies as the basis for global asset allocation decisions. in 2011, we adopted a dynamic approach to asset allocation whereby a plan's allocation to fixed income assets increases progressively over time towards an ultimate target of 90% as a plan moves toward full funding. we monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. during 2012 , none of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to the volatility in the markets. for further details on pension plan activity, see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. cash flows the following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended december 31, respectively. for additional details, please see the consolidated statements of cash flows in the consolidated financial statements. in millions 2012 2011 2010 operating cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations $ 1,277.7 $ 1,230.2 $ 756.4 investing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (146.4 ) 207.5 (179.0 ) financing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (1,303.9 ) (1,246.4 ) (403.7 ) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $ 1,277.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared with $ 1,230.2 million in 2011 . operating cash flows for 2012 and 2011 reflect consistent working capital levels and consistent earnings from continuing operations after taking into account the non-cash loss on sale/asset impairment charges related to the hussmann divestiture. 38 table of contents net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $ 1,230.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared with $ 756.4 million in 2010 . operating cash flows for 2011 reflect improved earnings from continuing operations after taking into account the non-cash loss on sale/asset impairment charge related to the hussmann divestiture. operating cash flows for 2010 reflect discretionary cash contributions to our pension funds of $444 million ($359 million after tax benefit received). investing activities net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $ 146.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared with net cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $ 207.5 million in 2011 . the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to decreased net proceeds from business dispositions and sale of property, plant, and equipment in 2012 compared to 2011, partially offset by a $44.3 million dividend from the company's equity investment in hussmann parent in 2012. during 2011, the company received net proceeds from business dispositions of $400.3 million related to the sale of the hussmann business and branches and the collection of proceeds for purchase price adjustments on the sale of doosan infracore. during 2011, we also received proceeds from the sale of assets from a restructured business in china. net cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations was $ 207.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared with net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations of $ 179.0 million in 2010 . the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to net proceeds from business dispositions of $400.3 million related to the sale of the hussmann business and branches and the collection of proceeds for purchase price adjustments on the sale of doosan infracore. we also received proceeds from the sale of assets from a restructured business in china. these proceeds were partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures during 2011. financing activities net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations during the year ended december 31, 2012 was $ 1,303.9 million , compared with $ 1,246.4 million during 2011 . the change in financing activities is primarily related to the settlement of the exchangeable senior notes and increased dividend payments during 2012, partially offset by decreased share repurchases and increased proceeds from shares issued under incentive plans in 2012. net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations during the year ended december 31, 2011 was $ 1,246.4 million , compared with $ 403.7 million during 2010 . the change in financing activities is primarily related to approximately $ 1.2 billion of share repurchases as well as increased dividend payments, partially offset by lower repayments of long term debt in 2011. capital resources based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, share repurchase programs, upcoming debt maturities, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future. capital expenditures were $ 262.6 million , $ 242.9 million and $ 179.5 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs and provide environmental enhancements and advanced technologies for existing facilities. the capital expenditure program for 2013 is estimated to be approximately $250 million, including amounts approved in prior periods. many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges. for financial market risk impacting the company, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper program. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2012 , our credit ratings were as follows: short-term long-term moody's p-2 baa1 standard and poor's a-2 bbb+ the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2012 , our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. 39 table of contents guarantees subsequent to the ireland reorganization, ir-ireland and ir-limited guarantee fully and unconditionally the outstanding public debt of ir-international, ir-global and ir-new jersey. see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment periods, in millions: less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total short-term debt $ 9.9 $ $ $ $ 9.9 long-term debt 953.9 * 1,168.8 16.5 1,085.0 3,224.2 interest payments on long-term debt 214.2 259.3 198.3 385.2 1,057.0 purchase obligations 1,001.4 1,001.4 operating leases 132.4 187.3 103.4 49.3 472.4 total contractual cash obligations $ 2,311.8 $ 1,615.4 $ 318.2 $ 1,519.5 $ 5,764.9 * includes $343 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. pensions at december 31, 2012 , we had net obligations of $ 918.4 million , which consist of noncurrent pension assets of $ 5.1 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $ 923.5 million . it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $ 102.5 million to our plans worldwide in 2013 . because the timing and amounts of long-term funding requirements for pension obligations are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2012 , we had postretirement benefit obligations of $ 851.4 million . we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $ 69.3 million in 2013 . because the timing and amounts of long-term funding requirements for postretirement obligations are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. income taxes at december 31, 2012 , we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $ 533.7 million and $ 84.1 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding matters relating to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits and internal revenue service (irs) tax disputes. contingent liabilities we are involved in various litigations, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. see note 9 and note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on matters affecting our liquidity. critical accounting policies management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states (gaap). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and 40 table of contents assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from estimates. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. allowance for doubtful accounts we have provided an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable which represents our best estimate of probable loss inherent in our accounts receivable portfolio. this estimate is based upon our policy, derived from our knowledge of our end markets, customer base and products. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level and begins with a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test included in u.s. gaap. for those reporting units where it is required, the first step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a second step is performed, wherein the reporting unit's carrying value of goodwill is compared to the implied fair value of goodwill. to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value, impairment exists and must be recognized. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value in step one is based on two valuation techniques, a discounted cash flow model (income approach) and a market adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (market approach), with each method being equally weighted in the calculation. we believe an equal weighting of both approaches is appropriate. the income approach relies on the company's estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. the market approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. in step 2, the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, was the price paid to acquire that reporting unit. recoverability of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is first assessed using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. this assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset. for those indefinite-lived assets where it is required, a fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. the determination of the estimated fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. we developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. 2012 impairment test for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2012, we concluded it was necessary to calculate the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. 41 table of contents goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 15.5% , near term growth rates ranging from (3.5)% to 14.8% and terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 4.0% . under the market approach, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 6.6 to 9.2 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) and 0.8 to 1.8 of projected revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except two, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15% . the two reporting units with a percentage of carrying value less than 15%, reported within the residential solutions and security technologies segments, exceeded their carrying value by 14.4% and 2.5% , respectively. these reporting units have goodwill of approximately $ 599 million and $ 190 million , respectively. for the specific security technologies reporting unit that exceeded its carrying value by less than 5%, we have provided below additional assumptions and a sensitivity analysis. under the income approach we assumed a discount rate of 10%, near term growth rates ranging from (1.1)% to 5% and a terminal growth rate of 2.5%. under the market approach, we assumed a weighted average multiple of 7.8 and 7.1 times projected 2012 and 2013 ebitda, respectively, and a multiple of 0.8 times projected 2012 and 2013 revenue, based on industry market data. holding other assumptions constant, a 1.0% increase in the discount rate would result in a $20 million decrease in the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, a 1.0% decrease in the long-term growth rate would result in a $15 million decrease in the estimated fair value of the reporting unit and a 5.0% decrease in the selected market multiples would result in a $15 million decrease in the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. each of these scenarios individually would result in the reporting unit failing step 1. assessing the fair value of goodwill includes, among other things, making key assumptions for estimating future cash flows and appropriate market multiples. these assumptions are subject to a high degree of judgment and complexity. we make every effort to estimate future cash flows as accurately as possible with the information available at the time the forecast is developed. however, changes in assumptions and estimates may affect the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, and could result in impairment charges in future periods. factors that have the potential to create variances in the estimated fair value of the reporting unit include but are not limited to the following: decreases in estimated market sizes or market growth rates due to greater-than-expected declines in volumes, pricing pressures or disruptive technology; declines in our market share and penetration assumptions due to increased competition or an inability to develop or launch new products; the impacts of the european sovereign debt crisis, including greater-than-expected declines in pricing, reductions in volumes, or fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the level of success of on-going and future research and development efforts, including those related to recent acquisitions, and increases in the research and development costs necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and launch new products; increase in the price or decrease in the availability of key commodities and the impact of higher energy prices; increases in our market-participant risk-adjusted weighted-average cost of capital; and changes in the structure of our business as a result of future reorganizations or divestitures of assets or businesses. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 12.0% to 12.5%, terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 3.0% to 5.0%. the fair values of our trane and american standard tradenames exceeded their respective carrying amounts by less than 15%. the two tradenames exceeded their carrying value by 10.5% and 13.0%, respectively. the carrying values of these tradenames are approximately $2,497 million and $105 million, respectively, at december 31, 2012. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on their estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. 2011 impairment test as a result of the planned divestiture of hussmann, we were required to test goodwill remaining within the climate solutions segment for impairment in the first quarter of 2011. no impairment charge was required for the remaining climate solutions 42 table of contents segment. based on year to date operational results, and management turnover within the residential hvac reporting unit, we updated our fair value assessment of the reporting unit in the third quarter of 2011 and noted that the fair value of the reporting unit continued to exceed its carrying amount. for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2011, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 12.0% to 17.0% and terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 4.0%. under the market approach, we used an adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except two, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15%. the two reporting units with a percentage of carrying value less than 15%, reported within the residential solutions and security technologies segments, exceeded their carrying value by 5.8% and 10.9%, respectively. these reporting units have goodwill of approximately $599 million and $198 million, respectively. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 12.5% to 14.5%, terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 3.0% to 5.0%. the fair values of two of our tradenames exceeded their respective carrying amounts by less than 15%. the two tradenames, reported within the climate solutions and residential solutions segments, exceeded their carrying value by 7.3% and 11.6%. the carrying values of these tradenames are approximately $2,497 million and $105 million. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on their estimated fair values. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. we believe that our use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. loss contingencies liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business, including litigation and administrative proceedings, environmental and asbestos matters and product liability, product warranty, worker's compensation and other claims. we have recorded reserves in the financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience data depending on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances with consultation of legal counsel, internal and external consultants and engineers. subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, we believe our estimated reserves are reasonable and do not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows for any year. asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. we record a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. although we were neither a manufacturer nor producer of asbestos, some of our formerly manufactured components from third party suppliers utilized asbestos-related components. as a result, we record certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax, as they relate to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with trane u.s. inc.'s asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries which are recorded within continuing operations. refer to note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for further details of asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized and earned when all of the following criteria are satisfied: (a) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; (b) price is fixed or determinable; (c) collectability is reasonably assured; and (d) delivery has occurred or service has been rendered. delivery generally occurs when the title and the risks and rewards of ownership have substantially transferred to the customer. revenue from maintenance contracts or extended warranties is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, unless another method is more representative of the costs 43 table of contents incurred. we enter into agreements that contain multiple elements, such as equipment, installation and service revenue. for multiple-element arrangements, the revenue relating to undelivered elements is deferred until delivery of the deferred elements. we recognize revenue for delivered elements when the delivered item has stand-alone value to the customer, customer acceptance has occurred, and there are only customary refund or return rights related to the delivered elements. revenues from certain of our equipment and the related installation sold under construction-type contracts are recorded using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with gaap. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-u.s. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. we regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. we will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. employee benefit plans we provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, employee mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with gaap. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. we review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. a discount rate reflects a rate at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. discount rates for all plans are established using hypothetical yield curves based on the yields of corporate bonds rated aa quality. spot rates are developed from the yield curve and used to discount future benefit payments. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan's investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of each measurement date. we believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the expected 2013 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $8.6 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by approximately $7.9 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would increase expected 2013 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.7 million and a 1.0% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate would increase the cost by approximately $1.4 million. recent accounting pronouncements recently adopted accounting pronouncements: in may 2011, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued accounting standards update (asu) 2011-04, "fair value measurement (topic 820): amendments to achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in u.s. gaap and international financial reporting standards (ifrs)." asu 2011-04 represents converged guidance between gaap and ifrs resulting in common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. this new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2011 and subsequent interim periods. the requirements 44 table of contents of asu 2011-04 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. the revised disclosure requirements are reflected in note 12. in june 2011, the fasb issued asu 2011-05, "presentation of comprehensive income." asu 2011-05 requires us to present components of other comprehensive income and of net income in one continuous statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive statements. the option to report other comprehensive income within the statement of equity has been removed. this new presentation of comprehensive income is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2011 and subsequent interim periods. the revised presentation requirements are reflected in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. in december 2011, the fasb issued asu 2011-12, "deferral of the effective date for amendments to the presentation of reclassification of items out of accumulated other comprehensive income in accounting standards update no. 2011-05." the revised amendments defer the presentation in the financial statements of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income for annual and interim financial statements. the deferral is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2011 and subsequent interim periods. the revised presentation requirements are reflected in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. in september 2011, the fasb issued asu 2011-08, "testing goodwill for impairment." this revised standard provides entities with the option to first use an assessment of qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. if a conclusion is reached that reporting unit fair value is not more likely than not below carrying value, no further impairment testing is necessary. this revised guidance applies to fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2011, and the related interim and annual goodwill impairment tests. the requirements of asu 2011-08 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. in july 2012, the fasb issued asu 2012-02, "intangibles - goodwill and other (topic 350): testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment." this revised standard provides entities with the option to first use an assessment of qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. if a conclusion is reached that the indefinite-lived intangible asset fair value is not more likely than not below carrying value, no further impairment testing is necessary. we elected to early adopt. the requirements of asu 2012-02 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. in december 2011, the fasb issued asu 2011-11, "disclosures about offsetting assets and liabilities." asu 2011-11 requires enhanced disclosures including both gross and net information about financial and derivative instruments eligible for offset or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. this new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after january 1, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. the requirements of asu 2011-11 will not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. we actively manage material currency exposures that are associated with purchases and sales and other assets and liabilities at the operating unit level. those exposures that cannot be naturally offset to an insignificant amount are hedged with foreign currency derivatives. derivative instruments utilized by us in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2012 , a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $ 118.9 million , as compared with $ 110.9 million at december 31, 2011 . these amounts, when realized, would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying transactions. 45 table of contents commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2012 . interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates would not have a material effect on our results of operations. 46 table of contentsrisk factors 7 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 41 backlog our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at december 31 , was as follows: in millions 2013 2012 climate $ 1,342.7 $ 1,460.2 industrial 517.4 481.1 total $ 1,860.1 $ 1,941.3 these backlog figures are based on orders received. while the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. we expect to ship substantially all the december 31, 2013 backlog during 2014 . environmental matters we continue to be dedicated to an environmental program to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process and to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the environmental protection agency and similar state authorities. we have also been identified as a potentially responsible party (prp) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal superfund and state remediation sites. for all such sites, there are other prps and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal. in estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other prps who may be jointly and severally liable. the ability of other prps to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties' financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future. we incurred $ (0.5) million , $ 3.1 million , and $1.2 million of expenses during the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively, for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 , we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $ 47.9 million and $ 55.6 million , respectively. of these amounts $ 42.1 million and $ 41.2 million , respectively, relate to remediation of sites previously disposed by us. our total current environmental reserve at december 31, 2013 and 2012 was $ 13.5 million and $ 18.0 million , respectively. given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain. for a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters as well as note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos related matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims have been filed against either ingersoll-rand company (ir-new jersey) or trane u.s. inc. (trane) and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. we incurred net costs after insurance recoveries of $56.2 million , $7.8 million , and $16.4 million during the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively, related to the settlement and defense of asbestos-related claims. of these amounts, $55.8 million , $17.9 million and $14.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively, relate to discontinued operations. our total liability for asbestos-related matters and our total asset for probable asbestos-related insurance recoveries were $846.2 million and $321.8 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2013 and $879.5 million and $320.3 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2012 . our total current liability for asbestos-related matters and our total current asset for probable asbestos- 6 table of contents related insurance recoveries was $69.1 million and $22.3 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2013 and $69.1 million and $22.5 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2012 . see also the discussion under part i, item 3, legal proceedings, and part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters as well as further detail in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. employees as of december 31, 2013 , we employed approximately 42,000 people throughout the world. available information we file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934. the public may read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov. in addition, this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the board of directors of the company has also adopted and posted in the investor relations section of the company's website our corporate governance guidelines and charters for each of the board's standing committees. the contents of the company's website are not incorporated by reference in this report. certifications new york stock exchange annual chief executive officer certification the company's chief executive officer submitted to the new york stock exchange the annual ceo certification as the company's compliance with the new york stock exchange's corporate governance listing standards required by section 303a.12 of the new york stock exchange's listing standards. sarbanes-oxley act section 302 certification the certifications of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the company pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a . risk factors our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks set forth below are those we consider most significant. we face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material but could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations. you should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. in that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. our global operations subject us to economic risks. our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the u.s. and internationally, including europe, china, brazil, venezuela, africa, india, argentina and mexico. these activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: changes in local laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints; limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries; imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas; difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; 7 table of contents national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and economic downturns, slowing economic growth and social and political instability. these risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services. we must develop and commercialize new products and services in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. the development and commercialization of new products and services require a significant investment of resources. we cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. we also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by the market. failure to develop new products and services that are accepted by the market could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the capital and credit markets are important to our business. instability in u.s. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. in particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategies. our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. see part ii item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. more than 40% of our 2013 net revenues were derived outside the u.s., and we expect sales to non-u.s. customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues. although we enter into currency exchange contracts to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time may, in some instances, have a material impact on our results of operations. because we do not hedge against all of our currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to currency fluctuations. we also translate assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements based on the applicable exchange rates. consequently, fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar versus other currencies could have a material impact on the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. we also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business or the business operations of previously-owned entities. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, product liability and asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against the total aggregate amount of losses sustained as a result of such proceedings and contingencies. as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other events could affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 8 table of contents our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. we may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. we rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are supported by third party vendors, to manage and operate our business. we are also investing in new information technology systems that are designed to continue improving our operations. if these systems cease to function properly or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. security breaches or disruptions of our technology infrastructure or products could negatively impact our business and financial results. our information technology infrastructure and technology embedded in certain of our control products may be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized security intrusions. despite instituting security policies and business continuity plans, our systems, networks and certain of our control products may be vulnerable to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events that could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation. such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. commodity shortages and price increases and higher energy prices could adversely affect our financial results. we rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. a disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against this volatility. while we use fixed price contracts to mitigate this exposure, we expect any future hedging activity to seek to minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices which would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases. additionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations in the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products, and supplying services, to customers around the world. consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. our operational excellence efforts may not achieve the improvements we expect. we utilize a number of tools, such as lean six sigma, to improve operational efficiency and productivity. implementation of new processes to our operations could cause disruptions and there is no assurance that all of our planned operational excellence projects will be fully implemented or, if implemented, will realize the expected improvements. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. at december 31, 2013 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $ 5.5 billion and $ 2.6 billion , respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods recognized. 9 table of contents changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect certain segments of the company's business and impact overall results of operations. demand for certain segments of the company's products and services is influenced by weather conditions. for instance, trane's sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of the company's business and impact overall results of operations. weakness in the commercial and residential construction markets may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. our commercial and residential hvac businesses, which collectively represent 61% of our net revenues, provide products and services to a wide range of markets, including significant sales to the commercial and residential construction markets. weakness in either or both of these construction markets may negatively impact the demand for our products and services. decrease in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. our operations are subject to regulatory risks. our u.s. and non-u.s. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including among others, laws related to the environment and health and safety. we have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. in addition, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions. if we are unable to effectively respond to changes to a pplicable laws and regulations or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. risks relating to our spin-off of allegion we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that w e expect to achieve subsequent to the spin-off. in connection with our spin-off in december 2013 of allegion, which now owns our former commercial and residential security businesses, we anticipated certain financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our shareholders. in particular, we commenced certain operational excellence and other productivity and strategic initiatives following the spin-off intended to provide a greater focus on growth, and to reduce complexity and overhead cost. we may not be able to achieve the anticipated results of these actions on the scale that we expected, and the anticipated benefits subsequent to the spin-off, and those operational excellence and other productivity and strategic initiatives, may not be fully realized. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders as of the time of the distribution that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or allegion could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received a ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of allegion plc's ordinary shares, together with certain related transactions, will qualify for tax-free treatment under sections 355 and 368(a) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), with the result that we and our shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares (the irs ruling ). the irs ruling also provides that specified internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition, we have received opinions from the law firm of simpson thacher &amp; bartlett llp substantially to the effect that specified requirements, including certain requirements that the irs will not rule on, necessary to obtain tax-free treatment have been satisfied, such that the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes and certain other matters relating to the distribution, including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution, will receive tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the irs ruling and the opinions rely on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the irs ruling and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in shares or asset ownership after the distribution. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser's best legal judgment and is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. in 10 table of contents addition, the opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution, and/or internal transactions, ultimately is determined to be taxable, we or allegion could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities, which could cause a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. furthermore, if, notwithstanding receipt of the irs ruling and opinions, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each shareholder subject to u.s. federal income tax who received shares of allegion in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the allegion shares received. that distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of our then-current and accumulated earnings and profits. any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the applicable shareholder's tax basis in our ordinary shares with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. under the terms of the tax matters agreement between us and allegion executed in connection with the spin-off, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us or allegion, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or allegion as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us or allegion, then allegion would be responsible for any taxes imposed on us or allegion as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. if allegion were to default in its obligation to us to pay such taxes, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of tax liabilities. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances as a result of the distribution because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. we may be deterred from engaging in significant equity transactions in order to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distribution. even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in corporate-level taxable gain to us and certain of our affiliates under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our shares or allegion's shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. any acquisitions or issuances of our shares or allegion's shares within two years after the distribution will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or allegion may be able to rebut that presumption. as a result, we may not pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that would otherwise maximize the value of our business. if the distribution is determined to be taxable for irish tax purposes, significant irish tax liabilities may arise. we have received an opinion of the irish revenue regarding the irish tax consequences of the distribution to the effect that certain reliefs and exemptions for corporate reorganizations apply. in addition to obtaining the opinion from irish revenue, we have also received opinions from the law firm of arthur cox confirming the applicability of the relevant exemptions and reliefs to the distribution as well as received opinions from other external advisers that certain internal transactions will not trigger irish tax costs as well. these opinions rely on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the opinions, irish revenue could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions do not qualify for the relevant exemptions or reliefs if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser's best legal judgment and is not binding on irish revenue or the courts and irish revenue or the courts may not agree with the legal opinion. in addition, the legal opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution ultimately is determined not to fall within certain exemptions or reliefs, the distribution could result in certain of our shareholders having an irish tax liability as a result of the distribution, or we or allegion could incur irish tax liabilities. to the extent we are responsible for any such liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. risks relating to our past reorganizations we effected a corporate reorganization in december 2001 to become a bermuda company (the bermuda reorganization) and a subsequent corporate reorganization in july 2009 to become an irish public limited company. these reorganizations exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations will be realized. changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under u.s. or non-u.s. tax laws or adverse determinations by taxing authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. 11 table of contents the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. tax authorities or non-u.s. tax authorities. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for instance, recent u.s. legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident for u.s. tax purposes, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations. there are other recent u.s. legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. moreover, other u.s. legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our u.s. subsidiaries to our non-u.s. affiliates, which could increase our tax liability. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation in any jurisdiction. while we monitor proposals that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax law is challenged and determined to be incorrect. in particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the ireland reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation. while our u.s. operations are subject to u.s. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-u.s. operations are generally not subject to u.s. tax other than withholding taxes. the irs or a court, however, may not concur with our conclusions including our determination that we, and a significant number of our foreign subsidiaries, are not controlled foreign corporations (cfc) within the meaning of the u.s. tax laws. a contrary determination, which could also arise through significant future acquisitions of our stock by u.s. persons, could also potentially cause u.s. holders (direct, indirect or constructive owners) of 10% or more of our stock (or the voting stock of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) to include in their gross income their pro rata share of certain of our and our non-u.s. subsidiary income for the period during which we (and our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc. in addition, gain (or a portion of such gain) realized on cfc shares sold by such shareholders may be treated as ordinary income depending on certain facts. treatment of us or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries as a cfc could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. as described further in legal proceedings, we have received several notices from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with audits of the 2001-2006 tax years. the irs has not contested the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda in any of these notices. we have and intend to continue to vigorously contest all of these proposed adjustments. although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for these matters and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. as we move forward to resolve these matters with the irs, the reserves established may be adjusted. although we continue to contest the irs's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. if the irs's position with respect to 2002-2006 is ultimately sustained, we would be required to record additional charges and the resulting liability will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although we expect them to do so, at this time the irs has not yet proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2006 as the federal income tax audits for those years are still in process or have not yet begun. it is unclear how the irs will apply its position to subsequent years or whether the irs will take a similar position in future audits with respect to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years. the inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our reorganizations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. legislative and regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us. the u.s. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to u.s. companies that reincorporate outside of the u.s. or have reincorporated outside of the u.s. for instance, the homeland security act of 2002, as amended, includes a provision that prohibits inverted domestic corporations and their subsidiaries from entering into contracts with the department of homeland security. in addition, the state of california adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain non-u.s. chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts. more recently, the 2008-2014 consolidated appropriations acts prohibit any federal government agency from using funds appropriated by congress for fiscal years 2008-2014 to pay an inverted domestic corporation or any of its subsidiaries for work performed or products provided under certain federal contracts ( affected contracts ). although the amount of monies already 12 table of contents paid to us or to be paid to us under the affected contracts is not material to the company, we cannot provide any assurance that the impact of future actions taken by the government in this area will not be materially adverse to our operations. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct business in the united states and in other countries but have changed their place of incorporation to another country. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on u.s. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. in addition, irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. also, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. under irish law, these authorizations must be renewed by the shareholders every five years and we cannot guarantee that these authorizations will always be approved. recently, certain proxy advisory firms are taking the position that irish companies should limit these authorizations in terms of the number of authorized but unissued shares that can be issued without shareholder approval, the number of shares that can be issued without pre-emptive rights and the duration of the authorizations. if we are required to limit these authorizations in order to obtain shareholder approval, we will be limited in our ability to issue shares in ways that u.s. companies are not limited and will need to renew the authorizations even more frequently than the five-year period provided under irish law. dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, we are required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. in the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the united states will not be subject to irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain irish dividend withholding tax forms. however, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ir-ireland. our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ir-ireland. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties as of december 31, 2013 , we owned or leased a total of approximately 13 million square feet of space worldwide. manufacturing and assembly operations are conducted in 50 plants across the world. we also maintain various warehouses, offices and repair centers throughout the world. the majority of our plant facilities are owned by us with the remainder under long-term lease arrangements. we believe that our plants have been well maintained, are generally in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. 13 table of contents the locations by segment of our principal plant facilities at december 31, 2013 were as follows: climate americas europe asia pacific and india curitiba, brazil kolin, czech republic zhong shan, china monterrey, mexico charmes, france taicang, china arecibo, puerto rico golbey, france chennai, india fort smith, arkansas galway, ireland penang, malaysia pueblo, colorado barcelona, spain samut prakan, thailand lynn haven, florida macon, georgia vidalia, georgia rushville, indiana lexington, kentucky st. paul, minnesota hastings, nebraska trenton, new jersey columbia, south carolina clarksville, tennessee tyler, texas waco, texas la crosse, wisconsin industrial americas europe asia pacific and india dorval, canada unicov, czech republic changzhou, china augusta, georgia sin le noble, france guilin, china campbellsville, kentucky wasquehal, france nanjing, china madison heights, michigan oberhausen, germany wujiang, china mocksville, north carolina fogliano redipuglia, italy naroda, india southern pines, north carolina vignate, italy sahibabad, india west chester, pennsylvania logatec, slovenia kent, washington item 3. legal proceedings in the normal course of business, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, including commercial and contract disputes, employment matters, product liability claims, asbestos-related claims, environmental liabilities, intellectual property disputes, and tax-related matters. in our opinion, pending legal matters are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. tax related matters in 2007, we received a notice from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years. the irs did not contest the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda. the irs proposed to ignore the entities that hold the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda (the 2001 debt ) and to which the interest was paid and impose 30% withholding tax on a portion of the interest payments as if they were made directly to a company that was not eligible for reduced u.s. withholding tax under a u.s. income tax treaty. the irs asserted that we owe additional taxes with respect to 2002 of approximately $84.0 million plus interest. we strongly disagreed with the view of the irs and filed a protest. in 2010, we received an amended notice from the irs assessing penalties of 30% on the asserted underpayment of tax described above. 14 table of contents we have so far been unsuccessful in resolving this dispute and recently received a notice of deficiency from the irs for 2002. the company filed a petition in the united states tax court in november 2013 contesting this deficiency. in its january 2014 answer to our petition, the irs asserted that we also owe 30% withholding tax on the portion of 2002 interest payments made on the 2001 debt upon which it did not previously assert withholding tax. a 30% withholding tax on this $85.0 million interest payment would increase the total tax liability proposed for 2002 to $109.0 million ( $84.0 million referred to in the paragraph above plus this additional $25.0 million ) plus 30% penalties and interest. recently we received notices from the irs containing proposed adjustments to the company's tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2003-2006 tax years. in these notices, the irs asserts that we owe a total of approximately $665.0 million of additional taxes, as described more fully below, in connection with our interest payments on the 2001 debt for the 2003-2006 period, plus penalties and interest on these unpaid taxes. the irs continues to take the position on the 2001 debt, which was retired at the end of 2011, that it previously took for our 2002 tax year and which is described above. as a result of this recharacterization, the irs asserts that we owe approximately $455.0 million of withholding tax for 2003-2006 plus 30% penalties. the irs also proposes to extend its position further and to treat all of the interest income from the 2001 debt as creating earnings and profits at ir-limited and, as a result, recharacterize the distributions made by ir-limited during the 2002-2006 tax years as taxable dividends instead of as a return of capital. consequently the irs asserts that we owe approximately $210.0 million of income tax on these dividends plus penalties of 20% . although we expect it to do so, the irs has not yet proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2006, as the federal income tax audits for those years are still in process or have not yet begun. in addition, we do not know how the irs will apply its position to the different facts presented in those years or whether the irs will take a similar position in future audits with respect to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years. we have vigorously contested all of these proposed adjustments and intend to continue to do so. although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position we believe that we are adequately reserved under the applicable accounting standards for these matters and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. as we move forward to resolve these matters with the irs, the reserves established may be adjusted. although we continue to contest the irs's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. if the irs's position with respect to the 2002-2006 tax years is ultimately sustained we would be required to record additional charges and the resulting liability will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. for a further discussion of tax matters, see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos-related matters certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims have been filed against either ir-new jersey or trane and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, environmental and asbestos matters and also note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. 15 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following is a list of executive officers of the company as of february 14, 2014 . name and age date of service as an executive officer principal occupation and other information for past five years michael w. lamach (50) 2/16/2004 chairman of the board (since june 2010) and chief executive officer and president (since february 2010); president and chief operating officer (2009-2010); senior vice president and president, trane commercial systems (2008-2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2004-2008) susan k. carter (55) 10/2/2013 senior vice president and chief financial officer (since october 2013); kbr inc. (a global engineering, construction and services business), executive vice president and chief financial officer (2009-2013); lennox international inc. (a heating, air conditioning and refirgeration company), executive vice president and chief financial officer (2004 to 2009). marcia j. avedon (52) 2/7/2007 senior vice president, human resources, communications and corporate affairs (since february 2007) paul a. camuti (52) 8/1/2011 senior vice president, innovation and chief technology officer (since august 2011); president, smart grid applications, siemens energy, inc. (an energy technology subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2010 -2011); president, research division, siemens corporation (a diversified global technology company) (2009 - 2010); president and chief executive officer, siemens corporate research, inc. (the research subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2005 - 2009) robert l. katz (51) 11/1/2010 senior vice president and general counsel (since november 2010); federal- mogul corporation (a global automotive supplier), senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary (2007-2010) gary s. michel (51) 8/1/2011 senior vice president and president, residential hvac (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, residential solutions (2011-2013); president and chief executive officer, club car (2007 - 2011) didier teirlinck (57) 6/4/2008 executive vice president ingersoll rand, climate segment (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, climate solutions (2009-2013); president, climate control technologies (2008-2009); president, climate control europe (2005-2008) todd d. wyman (46) 11/16/2009 senior vice president, global operations and integrated supply chain: (since november 2009); ge transportation (a unit of general electric company), vice president, global supply chain (2007-2009) robert g. zafari (55) 7/1/2010 executive vice president ingersoll rand, industrial segment (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, industrial technologies (2010-2013); president, tcs and climate solutions emeia (2009-2010); president, security technologies esa (2007-2008) richard j. weller (57) 9/8/2008 vice president and controller (since september 2008); vice president, finance (2008); vice president, finance, security technologies sector (2005-2008) no family relationship exists between any of the above-listed executive officers of the company. all officers are elected to hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. 16 table of contents item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities information regarding the principal market for our ordinary shares and related shareholder matters is as follows: our ordinary shares are traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir. as of february 3, 2014 , the approximate number of record holders of ordinary shares was 4,156 . the high and low sales price per share and the dividend declared per share for the following periods were as follows: ordinary shares 2013 high low dividend first quarter $ 56.77 $ 48.06 $ second quarter 58.92 52.03 0.21 third quarter 66.62 55.32 0.21 fourth quarter * 71.75 54.83 0.21 2012 high low dividend first quarter $ 41.98 $ 31.24 $ second quarter 45.62 38.24 0.16 third quarter 47.71 39.21 0.16 fourth quarter ** 50.03 43.85 0.37 * on december 1, 2013, we spun off our commercial and residential security businesses to our shareholders. each of our shareholders of record as of november 22, 2013 received one ordinary share of allegion for every three ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shares owned. ** in december 2012, we declared a dividend of $ 0.21 per ordinary share payable on march 28, 2013 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2013. future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the irish companies act. under the irish companies act, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits of ingersoll-rand plc (ir-ireland). in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of ir-ireland are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of ir-ireland's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce ir-ireland's net assets below such aggregate. information regarding equity compensation plans required to be disclosed pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the annual general meeting of shareholders. 17 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the following table provides information with respect to purchases by the company of its ordinary shares during the quarter ended december 31, 2013 : period total number of shares purchased (000's) (a) (b) average price paid per share (a) (b) total number of shares purchased as part of program (000's) (a) approximate dollar value of shares still available to be purchased under the program ($000's) (a) (c) october 1 - october 31 1,608.6 $ 65.35 1,606.7 $ 1,103,970 november 1 - november 30 0.3 68.17 1,103,970 december 1 - december 31 5,466.0 57.43 5,449.0 791,065 total 7,074.9 $ 59.81 7,055.7 (a) in december 2012, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program. the share repurchase program began in april 2013. share repurchases will be made from time to time at the discretion of management subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other considerations. the repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date. (b) we may also reacquire shares outside of the repurchase program from time to time in connection with the surrender of shares to cover taxes on vesting of share based awards. in october, november and december, 1,859; 294; and 17,044 shares, respectively, were reacquired in transactions outside the repurchase program. (c) in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the current share repurchase program. share repurchases will be made from time to time at the discretion of management subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other considerations. the repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date. the authorized shares under the new share repurchase program are not included in the approximate dollar value of shares still available to be purchased in the table above. 18 table of contents performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our ordinary shares with the cumulative total return on (i) the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and (ii) the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index for the five years ended december 31, 2013 . the graph assumes an investment of $100 in our ordinary shares, the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index on december 31, 2008 and assumes the reinvestment of dividends. the historical information shown below has been adjusted for the impact of the spin-off of allegion. company/index 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ingersoll rand 100 211 281 184 294 479 s&amp;p 500 100 126 145 148 172 228 s&amp;p 500 industrials index 100 121 153 152 175 247 19 table of contents item 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts: at and for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 net revenues $ 12,350.5 $ 11,988.3 $ 12,760.8 $ 12,033.4 $ 10,970.2 net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations 620.1 772.4 123.4 505.2 273.0 discontinued operations (1.3 ) 246.2 219.8 137.0 178.4 total assets 17,658.1 18,482.1 18,819.6 20,078.0 19,164.7 total debt 3,521.2 3,229.4 3,637.6 3,677.8 4,088.8 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 7,068.9 7,147.8 6,924.3 7,981.3 7,101.8 earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic: continuing operations $ 2.11 $ 2.54 $ 0.38 $ 1.56 $ 0.85 discontinued operations 0.81 0.68 0.42 0.56 diluted: continuing operations $ 2.08 $ 2.49 $ 0.36 $ 1.49 $ 0.83 discontinued operations (0.01 ) 0.79 0.65 0.40 0.54 dividends declared per ordinary share $ 0.63 $ 0.69 $ 0.59 $ 0.28 $ 0.50 1. 2011 amounts represent the operating results of the hussmann business and branches through their respective divestiture and transaction dates of september 30, 2011 and november 30, 2011. 2. 2011 earnings (loss) from continuing operations include an after-tax loss on sale and impairment charges related to the hussmann divestiture of $ 546 million . 3. 2011 dividends declared per ordinary share includes a dividend of $ 0.16 per ordinary share, declared in december 2011, and payable on march 30, 2012 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2012. 4. 2012 dividends declared per ordinary share includes a dividend of $ 0.21 per ordinary share, declared in december 2012, and payable on march 28, 2013 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2013. 5. 2012-2009 amounts have been recast to reflect the allegion spin-off as a discontinued operation. 20 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this annual report. overview organization we are a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. our business segments consist of climate and industrial, both with strong brands and leading positions within their respective markets. we generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as trane , ingersoll-rand , thermo king , american standard and club car . to achieve our mission of being a world leader in creating comfortable and efficient environments, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream from parts, service, used equipment and rentals; and to continuously improve the efficiencies and capabilities of the products and services of our high-potential businesses. we also continue to focus on operational excellence strategies as a central theme to improving our earnings and cash flows. trends and economic events we are a global corporation with worldwide operations. as a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors, as well as political factors, wherever we operate or do business. our geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of our product sales and services, has helped mitigate the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. given the broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the company. we monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. in addition, our order rates are indicative of future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. in those industry segments where we are a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. current market conditions, including challenges in international markets, continue to impact our financial results. uneven global commercial new construction activity is negatively impacting the results of our commercial heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) business. however, we believe the commercial hvac equipment replacement and aftermarket is slowly recovering. we have seen slower worldwide industrial equipment and aftermarket activity. while u.s. residential and consumer markets continue to be a challenge, we continue to see improvements in the u.s. new builder and replacement markets. the residential hvac business also continues to be impacted by a mix shift to units with a lower seasonal energy efficiency rating (seer). as economic conditions stabilize, we expect slight revenue growth along with benefits from restructuring and productivity programs. despite the current market environment, we believe we have a solid foundation of global brands and leading market shares in all of our major product lines. our growing geographic and industry diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service, parts and replacement revenue streams. in addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which we expect will drive our future growth. 21 table of contents significant events in 2013 allegion spin-off on december 1, 2013 (the distribution date), we completed the spin-off of our commercial and residential security businesses to our shareholders (the spin-off). on the distribution date, each of our shareholders of record as of the close of business on november 22, 2013 (the record date) received one ordinary share of allegion, plc (allegion) for every three ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shares held as of the record date. allegion is now an independent public company trading under the symbol alle on the new york stock exchange. after the distribution date, we do not beneficially own any allegion ordinary shares (other than approximately 7,045 shares received in a deferred compensation trust upon the spin-off as a result of the trust holding ordinary shares of ingersoll-rand plc as of the record date), and will no longer consolidate allegion into our financial results. beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013, allegion's historical financial results for periods prior to the distribution date will be reflected in our consolidated financial statements as a discontinued operation. see discontinued operations and divestitures within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and also note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our discontinued operations. senior notes due 2019, 2023, and 2043 in june 2013, we issued $1.55 billion principal amount of senior notes in three tranches through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ingersoll-rand global holding company limited (ir-global) pursuant to rule 144a of the u.s. securities act of 1933 (securities act). the tranches consist of $350 million of 2.875% senior notes due in 2019, $700 million of 4.250% senior notes due in 2023, and $500 million of 5.750% senior notes due in 2043. the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by each of ir-ireland, ingersoll-rand company limited (ir-limited), and ingersoll-rand international holding limited (ir-international). interest on the notes will be paid twice a year in arrears. the company has the option to redeem the notes in whole or in part at any time, and from time to time, prior to their stated maturity date at redemption prices set forth in the indenture agreement. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to the company's operations. in connection with the issuance of each series of notes, ir-global, the guarantors and the initial purchasers of the notes entered into a registration rights agreement. each registration rights agreement requires ir-global and the guarantors to use their commercially reasonable efforts to execute an effective exchange offer registration statement with the sec no later than 365 days after the closing date of the notes offering and to complete an exchange offer within 30 business days of such effective date. if a registration default occurs additional interest shall accrue on the notes. the proceeds from these notes were used to fund the july 2013 redemption of $600 million of 6.000% senior notes due 2013 and $655 million of 9.500% senior notes due 2014 and to fund expenses related to the spin-off of the commercial and residential security businesses, with any remaining proceeds to be used for general corporate purposes. related to this redemption, the company recorded $45.6 million of premium expense in the third quarter of 2013 in interest expense. irs exam results in 2007, we received a notice from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years. the irs did not contest the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda. the irs proposed to ignore the entities that hold the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda (the 2001 debt ) and to which the interest was paid and impose 30% withholding tax on a portion of the interest payments as if they were made directly to a company that was not eligible for reduced u.s. withholding tax under a u.s. income tax treaty. the irs asserted that we owe additional taxes with respect to 2002 of approximately $84 million plus interest. we strongly disagreed with the view of the irs and filed a protest. in 2010, we received an amended notice from the irs assessing penalties of 30% on the asserted underpayment of tax described above. we have so far been unsuccessful in resolving this dispute and recently received a notice of deficiency from the irs for 2002. the company filed a petition in the united states tax court in november 2013 contesting this deficiency. in its january 2014 answer to our petition, the irs asserted that we also owe 30% withholding tax on the portion of 2002 interest payments made on the 2001 debt upon which it did not previously assert withholding tax. a 30% withholding tax on this $85.0 million interest payment would increase the total tax liability proposed for 2002 to $109.0 million ( $84 million referred to in the paragraph above plus this additional $25.0 million ) plus 30% penalties and interest. recently we received notices from the irs containing proposed adjustments to the company's tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2003-2006 tax years. in these notices, the irs asserts that we owe a total of approximately $665.0 million of additional taxes, as described more fully below, in connection with our interest payments on the 2001 debt for the 2003-2006 period, plus penalties and interest on these unpaid taxes. the irs continues to take the position on the 2001 debt, which was retired at the end of 2011, that it previously took for our 2002 tax year and which is described above. as a result of this recharacterization, the irs asserts that we owe approximately $455.0 million of withholding tax for 2003-2006 plus 30% penalties. 22 table of contents the irs also proposes to extend its position further and to treat all of the interest income from the 2001 debt as creating earnings and profits at ir-limited and, as a result, recharacterize the distributions made by ir-limited during the 2002-2006 tax years as taxable dividends instead of as a return of capital. consequently the irs asserts that we owe approximately $210.0 million of income tax on these dividends plus penalties of 20% . although we expect it to do so, the irs has not yet proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2006, as the federal income tax audits for those years are still in process or have not yet begun. in addition, we do not know how the irs will apply its position to the different facts presented in those years or whether the irs will take a similar position in future audits with respect to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years. we have vigorously contested all of these proposed adjustments and intend to continue to do so. although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position we believe that we are adequately reserved under the applicable accounting standards for these matters and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. as we move forward to resolve these matters with the irs, the reserves established may be adjusted. although we continue to contest the irs's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. if the irs's position with respect to the 2002-2006 tax years is ultimately sustained we would be required to record additional charges and the resulting liability will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 2014 dividend increase and share repurchase program in february 2014, we announced an increase in our quarterly share dividend from $0.21 to $0.25 per share beginning with our march 2014 payment. the dividend is payable march 31, 2014 to shareholders of record on march 14, 2014. in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the current share repurchase program. the new share repurchase program is expected to begin in the second quarter of 2014. share repurchases will be made from time to time at the discretion of management subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other considerations. 2013 share repurchase program in december 2012, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program. the share repurchase program began in april 2013. during 2013 we repurchased 20.8 million shares for $ 1.2 billion , excluding commissions. these repurchases were accounted for as a reduction of ordinary shares and capital in excess of par value as they were canceled upon repurchase. 2011 share repurchase program our 2011 share repurchase program was authorized by our board of directors in april 2011 and was completed in april 2013. during the year ended december 31, 2012 , we repurchased 18.4 million shares for approximately $ 0.8 billion , excluding commissions. significant events in 2012 2012 dividend increase in december 2012, we announced an increase in our quarterly share dividend from $ 0.16 to $ 0.21 per share beginning with our march 2013 payment. pension and other postretirement plan amendments on june 8, 2012, our board of directors approved amendments to our retirement plans for certain u.s. and puerto rico non-bargained employees. eligible non-bargained employees hired prior to july 1, 2012 were given a choice of remaining in their respective defined benefit plan until the plan freezes on december 31, 2022 or freezing their accrued benefits in their respective defined benefit plan as of december 31, 2012 and receiving an additional 2% non-matching company contribution into the company's applicable defined contribution plan. eligible employees hired or rehired on or after july 1, 2012 will automatically receive the 2% non-matching company contribution into the applicable defined contribution plan in lieu of participating in the defined benefit plan. beginning january 1, 2023, all eligible employees will receive the 2% non-matching contribution into the applicable defined contribution plan. on february 1, 2012, our board of directors approved amendments to our postretirement medical plan with respect to post-65 retiree medical coverage. effective january 1, 2013, we discontinued offering company-sponsored retiree medical coverage for certain individuals age 65 and older. we transitioned affected individuals to coverage through the individual medicare market and will provide a tax-advantaged subsidy to those retirees eligible for subsidized company coverage that can be used toward reimbursing premiums and other qualified medical expenses for individual medicare supplemental coverage that is purchased through our third-party medicare coordinator. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of these amendments. 23 table of contents significant events in 2011 dividend increase in april 2011, we increased our quarterly stock dividend from $ 0.07 to $ 0.12 per share beginning with our june 2011 payment. in december 2011, we announced an increase in our quarterly stock dividend from $ 0.12 per share to $ 0.16 per share beginning with our march 2012 payment. divested operations on september 30, 2011 and november 30, 2011, we completed transactions to sell our hussmann refrigerated display case business to a newly-formed affiliate (hussmann parent) of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). these transactions included the equipment business and certain of the service branches in the u.s. and canada, and the equipment, service and installation businesses in mexico, chile, australia, new zealand, and japan (hussmann business) and the remaining north american hussmann service and installation branches (hussmann branches). we negotiated the final terms of the transaction to include our ownership of a portion of the common stock of hussmann parent, which represents significant continuing involvement. therefore, the results of hussmann are included in continuing operations for all periods presented, with our ownership interest reported using the equity method of accounting subsequent to september 30, 2011. see discontinued operations and divestitures within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and also note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our divested operations. 24 table of contents results of operations - for the years ended december 31 dollar amounts in millions, except per share data 2013 % of revenues 2012 % of revenues 2011 % of revenues net revenues $ 12,350.5 $ 11,988.3 $ 12,760.8 cost of goods sold (8,675.5 ) 70.3% (8,538.0 ) 71.2% (9,280.0 ) 72.7% selling and administrative expenses (2,570.0 ) 20.8% (2,382.9 ) 19.9% (2,395.2 ) 18.8% gain (loss) on sale/asset impairment % 4.5 % (646.9 ) 5.1% operating income 1,105.0 8.9% 1,071.9 8.9% 438.7 3.4% interest expense (278.8 ) (252.0 ) (278.5 ) other, net 3.4 28.1 28.4 earnings before income taxes 829.6 848.0 188.6 provision for income taxes (189.0 ) (56.0 ) (45.4 ) earnings from continuing operations 640.6 792.0 143.2 discontinued operations, net of tax 13.3 252.0 226.1 net earnings 653.9 1,044.0 369.3 less: net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (35.1 ) (25.4 ) (26.1 ) net earnings attributable to ingersoll-rand plc $ 618.8 $ 1,018.6 $ 343.2 diluted net earnings (loss) per ordinary share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations $ 2.08 $ 2.49 $ 0.36 discontinued operations (0.01 ) 0.79 0.65 net earnings $ 2.07 $ 3.28 $ 1.01 net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased by 3.0% , or $ 362.2 million , compared with the same period of 2012 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 2.3 % pricing 0.7 % total 3.0 % the increase in revenues was primarily driven by volume improvements within the climate segment and improved pricing for both climate and industrial. net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased by 6.1% , or $ 772.5 million , compared with the same period of 2011 , which primarily resulted from the following: pricing 1.4 % volume/product mix 0.4 % currency exchange rates (1.5 )% hussmann (6.4 )% total (6.1 )% the decrease in revenues was primarily driven by the absence of hussmann for the year ended december 31, 2012, which contributed $ 818.5 million of revenue in the same period in 2011. this decrease was partially offset by improved pricing within both of our segments and higher volumes within the industrial business segment. operating income/margin operating margin remained flat at 8.9% for the year ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 . during 2013 we experienced improved pricing in excess of material inflation (0.5%) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.4%), offset by increased 25 table of contents investment and restructuring spending (0.9%). during 2013 and 2012 , the company incurred costs of $82.3 million and $23.3 million , respectively, associated with ongoing restructuring actions. these actions included workforce reductions as well as the closure and consolidation of manufacturing facilities in an effort to improve the company's cost structure. operating margin improved to 8.9% for the year ended december 31, 2012 , compared to 3.4% for the same period of 2011 . the improvement was primarily due to operating income in 2011 including a $646.9 million loss on sale/asset impairment charge related to the divestiture of hussmann (5.1%), improved pricing in excess of material inflation across (1.3%), and the realization of productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.9%). these improvements were partially offset by increased investment and restructuring spending (1.3%) and unfavorable product mix and volume (0.9%). interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased by $ 26.8 million compared with the same period of 2012 , primarily as a result of the redemption premium expense incurred during the july 2013 debt redemption discussed in liquidity and capital resources. interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased $ 26.5 million compared with the same period of 2011 as a result of lower average debt balances in 2012 . other, net the components of other, net, for the year ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2013 2012 2011 interest income $ 12.8 $ 16.3 $ 25.5 exchange gain (loss) (14.0 ) 0.2 (1.3 ) earnings (loss) from equity investments (2.6 ) (5.9 ) (3.5 ) other 7.2 17.5 7.7 other, net $ 3.4 $ 28.1 $ 28.4 exchange gain (loss) for the year ended december 31, 2013 includes a loss of approximately $3.8 million related to the devaluation of the venezuela bolivar. included within earnings (loss) from equity investments for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 is $ 2.6 million , $ 5.9 million and $ 3.5 million of equity loss, respectively, on the hussmann equity investment incurred subsequent to the hussmann divestiture transaction dates. the activity included within other for the year ended december 31, 2012 is primarily related to adjustments to actual and expected insurance recoveries as a result of a settlement. provision for income taxes the 2013 effective tax rate was 22.8%. the 2013 effective tax rate is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate, have a lower effective rate and a $36 million net reduction in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits primarily due to the settlement of an audit in a major tax jurisdiction, partially offset by a tax charge of $51 million as a result of a change in assertion in certain subsidiary earnings that the company has previously determined to be permanently reinvested and approximately $74 million of allegion spin-off tax charges, primarily related to a net increase in our valuation allowances on certain deferred tax assets. revenues from non-u.s. jurisdictions account for approximately 41% of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income is earned and taxed outside the u.s. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. when comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between u.s. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability on our overall effective tax rate. the 2012 effective tax rate was 6.6%, which included a tax benefit of approximately $140.0 million resulting from a reduction in valuation allowances on certain non-u.s. deferred tax assets. the 2012 effective tax rate is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate, have a lower effective rate and a reduction in valuation allowances mentioned above, partially offset by a net increase in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. for a further discussion of tax matters, see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. review of business segments the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each segment included in continuing operations. in the fourth quarter of 2013, the company realigned its organizational structure to provide a greater focus on growth, continue implementation of business operating systems, build on our successful operational excellence philosophy and reduce complexity and costs. the company's new reporting structure includes the climate and industrial segments. 26 table of contents segment operating income is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate the financial performance of the business and as the basis for performance reviews, compensation and resource allocation. for these reasons, we believe that segment operating income represents the most relevant measure of segment profit and loss. we may exclude certain charges or gains from operating income to arrive at a segment operating income that is a more meaningful measure of profit and loss upon which to base our operating decisions. we define segment operating margin as segment operating income as a percentage of net revenues. climate our climate segment delivers energy-efficient solutions globally and includes trane and american standard heating &amp; air conditioning which provide heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) systems, and commercial and residential building services, parts, support and controls; and thermo king transport temperature control solutions. on september 30, 2011 and november 30, 2011, we completed transactions to sell hussmann to a newly-formed affiliate (hussmann parent) of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). as part of the deal terms we have an ongoing equity interest in hussmann parent, therefore operating results continue to be recorded within continuing operations. however, subsequent to the respective transaction dates our earnings from this equity interest are not reported in segment operating income. during the year ended december 31, 2011, we recorded a pre-tax loss on sale and asset impairment charges related to the hussmann divestiture totaling $ 646.9 million . these charges, as well as related adjustments recorded in 2012, have been excluded from segment operating income within the climate segment as management excludes these charges from operating income when making operating decisions about the business. see discontinued operations and divestitures within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and also note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our divested operations. 2011 net revenues and segment operating income for the climate segment includes the operating results of the hussmann business and branches prior to the sale. the operating results for the hussmann business and branches are included in net revenues and segment operating income for the climate segment for the year ended december 31, 2011 as follows: in millions 2011 net revenues $ 818.5 segment operating income $ 58.6 segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2013 % change 2012 % change 2011 net revenues $ 9,414.0 4.1% $ 9,042.5 8.7% $ 9,907.9 segment operating income 930.2 13.8% 817.6 2.3% 837.1 segment operating margin 9.9 % 9.0 % 8.4 % 2013 vs 2012 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased by 4.1% or $ 371.5 million , compared with the same period of 2012 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 3.5 % pricing 0.8 % currency exchange rates (0.2 )% total 4.1 % our trane commercial hvac business continues to be impacted by weakness in the worldwide commercial building markets. trane commercial hvac revenues increased due to improvements in both equipment and parts, services and solutions markets. trane residential hvac revenues increased due to increased volume in all equipment categories. these improvements were slightly offset by a continued mix shift to lower seer units. net revenues in our transport businesses increased driven by improvements in the americas and europe. segment operating margin improved to 9.9% for the year ended december 31, 2013 , compared to 9.0% for the same period of 2012 . the improvement was primarily driven by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.8%), pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.6%) and favorable volume/product mix (0.2%). these improvements were partially offset by increased investment and restructure spending (0.7). 27 table of contents 2012 vs 2011 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased by 8.7% or $ 865.4 million , compared with the same period of 2011 , which primarily resulted from the following: pricing 1.3 % volume/product mix (0.5 )% currency exchange rates (1.2 )% hussmann (8.3 )% total (8.7 )% our trane commercial hvac business was impacted by weakness in the worldwide commercial building markets. trane commercial hvac revenues increased as growth within our parts, services and solutions markets offset declines in equipment and systems in europe and asia. trane residential hvac revenues increased due to improved activity levels in both the new residential construction and replacement markets. these improvements were slightly offset by a continued mix shift to lower seer units. net revenues in our transport businesses decreased driven by declines in sea-going container revenues. growth in the americas was more than offset by declines in europe. segment operating margin improved to 9.0% for the year ended december 31, 2012 , compared to 8.4% for the same period of 2011 . the improvements due to pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (1.3%) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.8%), were partially offset by unfavorable volume/product mix (0.9%), increased investment and restructure spending (0.5%), and unfavorable currency impacts (0.2%). industrial our industrial segment delivers products and services that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. it includes ingersoll rand compressed air systems and services, power tools, material handling systems, aro fluid management equipment, as well as club car golf, utility and rough terrain vehicles. segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2013 % change 2012 % change 2011 net revenues $ 2,936.5 (0.3 )% $ 2,945.8 3.3 % $ 2,852.9 segment operating income 456.0 % 455.8 9.7 % 415.5 segment operating margin 15.5 % 15.5 % 14.6 % 2013 vs 2012 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013 decreased by 0.3% or $ 9.3 million , compared with the same period of 2012 , which primarily resulted from the following: pricing 0.6 % currency exchange rates 0.3 % volume/product mix (1.2 )% total (0.3 )% air and productivity revenues decreased due to declines in equipment sales, partially offset by growth in parts, service and solutions. club car revenues increased due to growth in both the golf car and utility vehicle markets. segment operating margin remained flat at 15.5% for the year end december 31, 2013 .and 2012. productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (1.1%) were offset by increased investment and restructuring spending ($0.7%) and unfavorable volume/product mix (0.4%). 2012 vs 2011 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 increased by 3.3% , or $ 92.9 million , compared with the same period of 2011 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 3.9 % pricing 1.7 % currency exchange rates (2.3 )% total 3.3 % 28 table of contents we experienced growth within our air and productivity business related to increased volume in the americas. the growth in the americas was primarily driven by improved air compressors sales. club car revenues increased due to improved pricing and growth in the golf car and utility vehicle markets. segment operating margin improved to 15.5% for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to 14.6% , for the same period of 2011 . the improvement was primarily driven by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (2.1%), pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.8%). these improvements were partially offset by increased investment and restructuring spending (1.9%) and unfavorable currency impacts (0.2%). discontinued operations and divestitures discontinued operations the components of discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2013 2012 2011 net revenues $ 1,889.9 $ 2,046.6 $ 2,093.4 pre-tax earnings (loss) from operations 84.7 379.5 355.7 pre-tax gain (loss) on sale 2.3 (57.7 ) tax benefit (expense) (71.4 ) (129.8 ) (71.9 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ 13.3 $ 252.0 $ 226.1 discontinued operations by business for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2013 2012 2011 allegion spin-off, net of tax $ 12.4 $ 254.2 $ 275.7 other discontinued operations, net of tax 0.9 (2.2 ) (49.6 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ 13.3 $ 252.0 $ 226.1 allegion spin-off on december 1, 2013, (the distribution date) we completed the spin-off of our commercial and residential security businesses, now under the name of allegion, plc (allegion), to our shareholders (the spin-off). on the distribution date, each of our shareholders of record as of the close of business on november 22, 2013 (the record date) received one ordinary share of allegion for every three ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shares held as of the record date. allegion is now an independent public company trading under the symbol alle on the new york stock exchange. net revenues and after-tax earnings of allegion for the year ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2013 2012 2011 net revenues $ 1,889.9 $ 2,046.6 $ 2,021.2 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ 12.4 $ 254.2 $ 275.7 * included in after-tax earnings (loss) from operations for the year ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 are spin costs of $128.0 million and $5.7 million , respectively, and tax charges related to enacting the spin-off. also, the 2013 results include a 111.4 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge. for a further discussion, see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. 29 table of contents the components of allegion assets and liabilities recorded as held for spin-off on the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2012 are as follows: in millions december 31, 2012 assets current assets $ 726.1 property, plant and equipment, net 226.5 goodwill 646.3 intangible assets, net 150.5 other assets and deferred income taxes 68.0 assets held for spin-off 1,817.4 liabilities current liabilities $ 362.9 noncurrent liabilities 168.9 liabilities held for spin-off $ 531.8 in november 2013, prior to the spin-off, the commercial and residential security businesses borrowed $1,274.2 million . the proceeds of the borrowing remained with the company. on december 1, 2013 we made a distribution of $(0.5) million to the company's shareholders in connection with the spin-off of allegion. the distribution included $1,953.7 million of assets, $1,974.2 million of liabilities, $61.1 million of accumulated other comprehensive loss and $41.1 million of noncontrolling interest. other discontinued operations the components of other discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2013 2012 2011 retained costs, net of tax $ 0.9 $ (16.2 ) $ (34.8 ) net gain (loss) on disposals, net of tax 14.0 (14.8 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ 0.9 $ (2.2 ) $ (49.6 ) on november 30, 2007, we completed the sale of our bobcat, utility equipment and attachments businesses (collectively, compact equipment) to doosan infracore for gross proceeds of approximately $ 4.9 billion , subject to post-closing purchase price adjustments. compact equipment manufactured and sold compact equipment, including skid-steer loaders, compact track loaders, mini-excavators and telescopic tool handlers; portable air compressors, generators and light towers; general-purpose light construction equipment; and attachments. we were in dispute regarding post-closing matters with doosan infracore. during the second quarter of 2011, we collected approximately $ 48.3 million of our outstanding receivable from doosan infracore related to certain purchase price adjustments. during the second quarter of 2012, doosan infracore paid the company a total of $ 46.5 million to settle the outstanding receivable and remaining disputed post-closing matters. other discontinued operations, net of tax from previously sold businesses is mainly related to postretirement benefits, product liability, worker's compensation, and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related) and tax effects of post-closing purchase price adjustments. divested operations hussmann divestiture on september 30, 2011, we completed a transaction to sell our hussmann refrigerated display case business to a newly-formed affiliate (hussmann parent) of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). this transaction included the equipment business and certain of the service branches in the u.s. and canada, and the equipment, service and installation businesses in mexico, chile, australia, new zealand, and japan (hussmann business). the final transaction allowed hussmann parent the option to acquire the remaining north american hussmann service and installation branches (hussmann branches). hussmann parent completed the acquisition of the hussmann branches on november 30, 2011. the hussmann business and branches, which are reported as part of the climate segment, manufacture, market, distribute, install, and service refrigerated display merchandising equipment, refrigeration systems, over the counter parts, and other commercial and industrial refrigeration applications. the hussmann business divestiture was originally announced on april 21, 2011 and met the criteria for classification as held for sale treatment in accordance with gaap during the first quarter of 2011. during the third quarter of 2011, we negotiated the final 30 table of contents transaction to sell the hussmann business and branches to cd&amp;r in exchange for $ 370 million in cash, subject to purchase price adjustments, and common stock of hussmann parent, such that following the sale, cd&amp;r would own cumulative convertible participating preferred stock of hussmann parent, initially representing 60% of the outstanding capital stock (on an as-converted basis) of hussmann parent, and we would own all of the common stock, initially representing the remaining 40% of the outstanding capital stock (on an as-converted basis) of hussmann parent. our ownership of common stock of hussmann parent represents significant continuing involvement. therefore, the results of the hussmann business and branches are included in continuing operations for all periods presented. based on these terms, we recorded a total pre-tax loss on sale/asset impairment charge of $ 646.9 million during the full year of 2011. results for the hussmann business and branches for the year ended december 31, 2011 are as follows: in millions 2011* net revenues $ 818.5 gain (loss) on sale/asset impairment (646.9 ) ** net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc (513.1 ) diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: (1.51 ) * results represent the operating results of hussmann business and branches through their respective divestiture transaction dates. ** included in gain (loss) on sale/asset impairment for the year ended december 31, 2011 are transaction costs of $ 12.2 million . hussmann parent is required to pay a quarterly preferred dividend payment to cd&amp;r in the form of cash or additional preferred shares. our ownership percentage as of december 31, 2013 was 37.2% . our ownership interest in hussmann parent is reported using the equity method of accounting subsequent to september 30, 2011. our equity investment in the hussmann parent is reported within other noncurrent assets and the related equity earnings reported in other, net within net earnings. liquidity and capital resources we earn a significant amount of our operating income in jurisdictions where it is deemed to be permanently reinvested. our most promin ent jurisdiction of operation is the u.s. other than as discussed below, we currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate funds to the u.s., and no provision for u.s. income taxes has been made with respect to such earnings. we expect existing cash and cash equivalents available to the u.s., the cash generated by our u.s. operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital and debt markets will be sufficient to fund our u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. in addition, we expect existing non-u.s. cash and cash equivalents and the cash generated by our non-u.s. operations will be sufficient to fund our non-u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. should we require more capital in the u.s. than is generated by our u.s. operations, and we determine that repatriation of non-u.s. cash is necessary, such amounts would be subject to u.s. federal income taxes. as a result of the allegion spin-off and certain internal restructurings, the company believes it is advantageous to fully repay an intercompany debt obligation between two of its subsidiaries. in order to facilitate the repayment of this intercompany debt, in the fourth quarter of 2013, the company decided to change its permanent reinvestment assertion as it relates to approximately $740 million of earnings primarily related to subsidiaries in hong kong, australia and canada. the company has recorded the tax effects of this change in the fourth quarter of 2013, which resulted in a charge of approximately $51 million. except where otherwise noted, the company continues with its permanent reinvestment assertion on its remaining unremitted earnings. for a further discussion, see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. during 2013, we repurchased 20.8 million shares for $ 1.2 billion , excluding commissions, under our current share repurchase program. these repurchases were accounted for as a reduction of ordinary shares and capital in excess of par value as they were canceled upon repurchase. in february 2014, we announced an increase in our quarterly share dividend from $0.21 to $0.25 per share beginning with our march 2014 payment. the dividend is payable march 31, 2014 to shareholders of record on march 14, 2014. in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the current share repurchase program. the new share repurchase program is expected to begin in the second quarter of 2014. we expect our available cash flow, committed credit lines and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to fund the increased dividend and share repurchases. 31 table of contents liquidity the following table contains several key measures to gauge our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended december 31: in millions 2013 2012 2011 cash and cash equivalents $ 1,937.2 $ 708.4 $ 987.0 short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt 367.7 962.9 761.9 long-term debt 3,153.5 2,266.5 2,875.8 total debt 3,521.2 3,229.4 3,637.7 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 7,068.9 7,147.8 6,924.3 total equity 7,131.3 7,229.3 7,012.4 debt-to-total capital ratio 33.1 % 30.9 % 34.2 % short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt at december 31 consisted of the following: in millions 2013 2012 debentures with put feature $ 343.0 $ 343.0 6.000% senior notes due 2013 600.0 other current maturities of long-term debt 8.0 10.0 other short-term borrowings 16.7 9.9 total $ 367.7 $ 962.9 commercial paper program the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, under the commercial paper program is $ 2 billion as of december 31, 2013 . under the commercial paper program, ingersoll-rand global holding company limited (ir-global), may issue notes from time to time, and the proceeds of the financing will be used for general corporate purposes. each of ir-ireland, ingersoll-rand company limited (ir-limited), and ingersoll-rand international holding limited (ir-international) has provided an irrevocable and unconditional guarantee for the notes issued under the commercial paper program. we had no commercial paper outstanding at december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 . debentures with put feature at december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 , we had outstanding $343.0 million and $ 343.0 million , respectively, of fixed rate debentures which only require early repayment at the option of the holder. these debentures contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date, subject to a notice requirement. if exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder's option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. if these options are not exercised, the final maturity dates would range between 2027 and 2028 . holders of these debentures had the option to exercise the put feature on $ 37.2 million of the outstanding debentures in february 2013, subject to the notice requirement. no exercises were made. holders of the remaining $ 305.8 million of the outstanding debentures had the option to exercise the put feature, subject to the notice requirement, on the remaining $ 305.8 million in outstanding debentures in november 2013. no material exercises were made. holders of these debentures had the option to exercise the put feature on $37.2 million of the outstanding debentures in february 2014, subject to the notice requirement. no notifications were received. based on our cash flow forecast and access to the capital markets, we believe we will have sufficient liquidity to repay any amounts exercised as a result of the put features. senior notes due 2019, 2023, and 2043 in june 2013, we issued $1.55 billion principal amount of senior notes in three tranches through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act. the tranches consist of $350 million of 2.875% senior notes due in 2019, $700 million of 4.250% senior notes due in 2023, and $500 million of 5.750% senior notes due in 2043. in connection with the issuance of each series of notes, ir-global, the guarantors and the initial purchasers of the notes entered into a registration rights agreement. each registration rights agreement requires ir-global and the guarantors to use their commercially reasonable efforts to execute an effective exchange offer registration statement with the sec no later than 365 days after the closing date of the notes offering and to complete an exchange offer within 30 business days of such effective date. if a registration default occurs additional interest shall accrue on the notes. the proceeds from these notes were used to fund the july 2013 redemption of $600 million of 6.000% senior notes due 2013 and $655 million of 9.500% senior notes due 2014 and to fund expenses related to the spin-off of the commercial and residential security businesses, with any remaining proceeds to be used for general corporate purposes. 32 table of contents in july 2013, we fully redeemed the outstanding principal amount of $600 million of our 6.000% senior notes due 2013 and $655 million of our 9.500% senior notes due 2014, resulting in $45.6 million of redemption premium expense, which was recorded in the third quarter of 2013 in interest expense. exchangeable senior notes due 2012 in april 2009, we issued $ 345 million of 4.5% exchangeable senior notes (the notes) through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. we settled all remaining outstanding notes during 2012. as a result, we paid $ 357.0 million in cash and issued 10.8 million ordinary shares to settle the principal, interest and equity portion of the notes. other as of december 31, 2013, we have a a 4-year, $1.0 billion revolving credit facility maturing on may 20, 2015 and a 5-year, $ 1.0 billion revolving credit facility maturing on march 15, 2017 , through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. ir-ireland, ir-limited and ir-international have each provided an irrevocable and unconditional guarantee for these credit facilities. during 2013, the credit facilities were modified to include ir-new jersey as a guarantor. the total committed revolving credit facilities of $ 2.0 billion are unused and provide support for our commercial paper program as well as for other general corporate purposes. in addition, other available non-u.s. lines of credit were $ 907.3 million , of which $ 660.0 million was unused at december 31, 2013 . these lines provide support for bank guarantees, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes. pension plans our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. we seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contribution and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. we use a dynamic approach to asset allocation whereby a plan's allocation to fixed income assets increases progressively over time towards an ultimate target of 90% as a plan moves toward full funding. we monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. none of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to the volatility in the markets. for further details on pension plan activity, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. cash flows the following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended december 31, respectively. for additional details, please see the consolidated statements of cash flows in the consolidated financial statements. in millions 2013 2012 2011 operating cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations $ 877.7 $ 868.1 $ 786.3 investing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (213.2 ) (128.2 ) 229.8 financing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations 354.1 (1,295.7 ) (1,239.8 ) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $ 877.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared with $ 868.1 million in 2012 . operating cash flows for 2013 reflect consistent earnings from continuing operations after taking into account spin-related tax charges with no cash impact in 2013 and favorable changes in working capital management. net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $ 868.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared with $ 786.3 million in 2011 . operating cash flows for 2012 and 2011 reflect consistent working capital levels and consistent earnings from continuing operations after taking into account the non-cash loss on sale/asset impairment charges related to the hussmann divestiture. investing activities net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $ 213.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared with $ 128.2 million in 2012 . the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to increased capital expenditures and decreased net proceeds from business dispositions and equity investments in 2013 compared to 2012. net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $ 128.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared with net cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $ 229.8 million in 2011 . the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to decreased net proceeds from business dispositions and sale of property, plant, and equipment in 2012 compared to 2011, partially offset by a $44.3 million dividend from the company's equity investment in hussmann parent in 2012. during 2011, the company received net proceeds from business dispositions of $400.3 million related to the sale of the 33 table of contents hussmann business and branches and the collection of proceeds for purchase price adjustments on the sale of doosan infracore. during 2011, we also received proceeds from the sale of assets from a restructured business in china. financing activities net cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations during the year ended december 31, 2013 was $ 354.1 million , compared with net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations of $ 1,295.7 million in 2012 . the change in financing activities is primarily related to net proceeds from refinancing of our long term debt in 2013 and a transfer of $1,274.2 million from allegion in connection with the spin-off , partially offset by increased repurchase of ordinary shares in 2013. net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations during the year ended december 31, 2012 was $ 1,295.7 million , compared with $ 1,239.8 million during 2011 . the change in financing activities is primarily related to the settlement of the exchangeable senior notes and increased dividend payments during 2012, partially offset by decreased share repurchases and increased proceeds from shares issued under incentive plans in 2012. capital resources based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, share repurchase programs, upcoming debt maturities, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future. capital expenditures were $ 242.2 million , $ 243.1 million and $ 217.1 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs and provide environmental enhancements and advanced technologies for existing facilities. the capital expenditure program for 2014 is estimated to be approximately $250 million, including amounts approved in prior periods. many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges. for financial market risk impacting the company, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper program. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2013 , our credit ratings were as follows: short-term long-term moody's p-2 baa2 standard and poor's a-2 bbb the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2013 , our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. guarantees subsequent to our reorganization as an irish plc, ir-ireland and ir-limited guaranteed fully and unconditionally the outstanding public debt of ir-international, ir-global and ir-new jersey. during 2013, ir-global and ir-international public outstanding indentures were modified to include ir-new jersey as a co-obligor. 34 table of contents contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment periods, in millions: less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total short-term debt $ 16.7 $ $ $ $ 16.7 long-term debt 351.0 * 517.2 765.4 1,877.3 3,510.9 interest payments on long-term debt 194.3 344.4 314.8 1,531.3 2,384.8 purchase obligations 954.0 954.0 operating leases 111.6 149.2 71.6 60.7 393.1 total contractual cash obligations $ 1,627.6 $ 1,010.8 $ 1,151.8 $ 3,469.3 $ 7,259.5 * includes $343 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. pensions at december 31, 2013 , we had net obligations of $ 554.0 million , which consist of noncurrent pension assets of $ 4.3 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $ 558.3 million . it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $ 154.1 million to our plans worldwide in 2014 . because the timing and amounts of long-term funding requirements for pension obligations are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2013 , we had postretirement benefit obligations of $ 713.3 million . we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $ 66.6 million in 2014 . because the timing and amounts of long-term funding requirements for postretirement obligations are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. income taxes at december 31, 2013 , we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $ 363.3 million and $ 71.9 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding matters relating to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits and internal revenue service (irs) tax disputes. contingent liabilities we are involved in various litigations, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. see note 8 and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on matters affecting our liquidity. critical accounting policies management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states (gaap). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from estimates. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. 35 table of contents allowance for doubtful accounts we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable which represents our best estimate of probable loss inherent in our accounts receivable portfolio. this estimate is based upon our two step policy that results in the total recorded allowance for doubtful accounts. the first step is to create a specific reserve for significant accounts as to which the customer's ability to satisfy their financial obligation to the company is in doubt due to circumstances such as bankruptcy, deteriorating operating results or financial position. in these circumstances, management uses its judgment to record an allowance based on the best estimate of probable loss, factoring in such considerations as the market value of collateral, if applicable. the second step is to record a portfolio reserve based on the aging of the outstanding accounts receivable portfolio and the company's historical experience with our end markets, customer base and products. actual results could differ from those estimates. these estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically, and the effects of changes, if any, are reflected in the statement of operations in the period that they are determined. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level and begins with a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test included in u.s. gaap. for those reporting units where it is required, the first step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a second step is performed, wherein the reporting unit's carrying value of goodwill is compared to the implied fair value of goodwill. to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value, impairment exists and must be recognized. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value in step one is based on two valuation techniques, a discounted cash flow model (income approach) and a market adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (market approach), with each method being equally weighted in the calculation. we believe an equal weighting of both approaches is appropriate. the income approach relies on the company's estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. the market approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. in step 2, the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, was the price paid to acquire that reporting unit. recoverability of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is first assessed using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. this assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset. for those indefinite-lived assets where it is required, a fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. the determination of the estimated fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. we developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. 2013 impairment test for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2013, we concluded it was necessary to calculate the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. 36 table of contents goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 15.5% , near term growth rates ranging from (0.2)% to 8.7% and terminal growth rates ranging from 3.0% to 4.0% . under the market approach, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 7.2 to 9.8 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) and 0.9 to 2.4 of projected revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. in our 2012 form 10-k, we disclosed a security technologies reporting unit whose excess estimated fair value over carrying value was less than 15%. as a result of the spin-off, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013, this reporting unit is now presented within discontinued operations. please see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of goodwill impairment charges related to discontinued operations. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.5% to 12.0%, terminal growth rate of 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 3.0% to 4.5%. for all tradenames, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. 2012 impairment test for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2012, we concluded it was necessary to calculate the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 11.0% to 15.5% , near term growth rates ranging from (3.5)% to 14.5% and terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 4.0% . under the market approach, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 6.6 to 9.2 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) and 0.8 to 1.8 of projected revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except one, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15% . the reporting unit with a percentage of carrying value less than 15%, reported within the climate segment, exceeded its carrying value by 14.4% . this reporting unit had goodwill of approximately $ 599 million at december 31, 2012. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 12.0% to 12.5%, terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 3.0% to 4.0%. the fair values of our trane and american standard tradenames exceeded their respective carrying amounts by less than 15%. the two tradenames exceeded their carrying value by 10.5% and 13.0%, respectively. the carrying values of these tradenames are approximately $2,497 million and $105 million, respectively, at december 31, 2012. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying 37 table of contents value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. we believe that our use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. loss contingencies liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business, including litigation and administrative proceedings, environmental and asbestos matters and product liability, product warranty, worker's compensation and other claims. we have recorded reserves in the financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience data depending on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances with consultation of legal counsel, internal and external consultants and engineers. subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, we believe our estimated reserves are reasonable and do not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows for any year. asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. we record a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. asbestos related defense costs are excluded from the asbestos claims liability and are recorded separately as services are incurred. although we were neither a manufacturer nor producer of asbestos, some of our formerly manufactured components from third party suppliers utilized asbestos-related components. as a result, we record certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax, as they relate to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with trane u.s. inc.'s asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries which are recorded within continuing operations. refer to note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for further details of asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized and earned when all of the following criteria are satisfied: (a) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; (b) the price is fixed or determinable; (c) collectability is reasonably assured; and (d) delivery has occurred or service has been rendered. delivery generally occurs when the title and the risks and rewards of ownership have substantially transferred to the customer. both the persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement and fixed or determinable price criteria are deemed to be satisfied upon receipt of an executed and legally binding sales agreement or contract that clearly defines the terms and conditions of the transaction including the respective obligations of the parties. if the defined terms and conditions allow variability in all or a component of the price, revenue is not recognized until such time that the price becomes fixed or determinable. at the point of sale, the company validates that existence of an enforceable claim that requires payment within a reasonable amount of time and assesses the collectability of that claim. if collectability is not deemed to be reasonably assured, then revenue recognition is deferred until such time that collectability becomes probable or cash is received. delivery is not considered to have occurred until the customer has taken title and assumed the risks and rewards of ownership. service and installation revenue are recognized when earned. in some instances, customer acceptance provisions are included in sales arrangements to give the buyer the ability to ensure the delivered product or service meets the criteria established in the order. in these instances, revenue recognition is deferred until the acceptance terms specified in the arrangement are fulfilled through customer acceptance or a demonstration that established criteria have been satisfied. if uncertainty exists about customer acceptance, revenue is not recognized until acceptance has occurred. we offer various sales incentive programs to our customers, dealers, and distributors. sales incentive programs do not preclude revenue recognition, but do require an accrual for the company's best estimate of expected activity. examples of the sales incentives that are accrued for as a contra receivable and sales deduction at the point of sale include, but are not limited to, discounts (i.e. net 30 type), coupons, and rebates where the customer does not have to provide any additional requirements to receive the discount. sales returns and customer disputes involving a question of quantity or price are also accounted for as a reduction in revenue and a contra receivable. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, the company had a customer claim accrual (contra receivable) of $1.7 million and $2.1 million , respectively. all other incentives or incentive programs where the customer is required to reach a certain sales level, remain a customer for a certain period of time, provide a rebate form or is subject to additional requirements are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and establishment of a liability. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, the company had a sales incentive accrual of $80.1 million and $62.2 million , respectively. each of these accruals represents the best estimate the company expects to pay related to previously sold units. these estimates are reviewed regularly for accuracy. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between our estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. the company enters into maintenance and extended warranty contracts with customers. revenue related to these services is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, unless sufficient historical evidence indicates that the cost of providing these services is incurred on an other than straight-line basis. in these circumstances, revenue is recognized over the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing the service. 38 table of contents the company, primarily through its climate segment, provides equipment (e.g. hvac, controls), integrated solutions, and installation designed to customer specifications through construction-type contracts. the term of these types of contracts is typically less than one year, but can be as long as three years. revenues related to these contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with gaap. this measure of progress toward completion, utilized to recognize sales and profits, is based on the proportion of actual cost incurred to date as compared to the total estimate of contract costs at completion. the timing of revenue recognition often differs from the invoicing schedule to the customer, with revenue recognition in advance of customer invoicing recorded to unbilled accounts receivable and invoicing in advance of revenue recognition recorded to deferred revenue. at december 31, 2013 , all recorded receivables (billed and unbilled) are due within one year. the company re-evaluates its contract estimates periodically and reflects changes in estimates in the current period using the cumulative catch-up method. these periodic reviews have not historically resulted in significant adjustments. if estimated contract costs are in excess of contract revenues, then the excess costs are accrued. we enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple elements, such as equipment, installation and service revenue. for multiple element arrangements, each element is evaluated to determine the separate units of accounting. the total arrangement consideration is then allocated to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling price at the inception of the arrangement. the relative selling price is determined using vendor specific objective evidence (vsoe) of selling price, if it exists; otherwise, third-party evidence (tpe) of selling price is used. if neither vsoe nor tpe of selling price exists for a deliverable, a best estimate of the selling price is developed for that deliverable. the company primarily utilizes vsoe to determine its relative selling price. the company recognizes revenue for delivered elements when the delivered item has stand-alone value to the customer, the basic revenue recognition criteria have been met, and only customary refund or return rights related to the delivered elements exist. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-u.s. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. we regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. we will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. employee benefit plans we provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, employee mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with gaap. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. we review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. a discount rate reflects a rate at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. discount rates for all plans are established using hypothetical yield curves based on the yields of corporate bonds rated aa quality. spot rates are developed from the yield curve and used to discount future benefit payments. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan's investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of each measurement date. we believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. 39 table of contents changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the expected 2014 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $5.0 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by approximately $6.8 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would decrease expected 2014 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.5 million and a 1.0% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate would increase the service and interest cost by approximately $1.2 million. recent accounting pronouncements recently adopted accounting pronouncements: in december 2011, the fasb issued asu 2011-11, disclosures about offsetting assets and liabilities. asu 2011-11 requires enhanced disclosures including both gross and net information about financial and derivative instruments eligible for offset or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. this new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after january 1, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. the requirements of asu 2011-11 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. in january 2013, the fasb issued asu 2013-01, clarifying the scope of disclosures about offsetting assets and liabilities. asu 2013-01 clarifies the scope of asu 2011-11 to apply to derivative instruments that are offset or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. this clarified guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after january 1, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. the revised requirements of asu 2013-01 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. in february 2013, the fasb issued asu 2013-02, reporting of amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (aoci). asu 2013-02 requires a rollforward of changes in aoci by component and information about significant reclassifications from aoci to net earnings to be presented in one location, either on the face of the financial statements or in the notes. this new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2012 and subsequent interim periods. the requirements of asu 2013-02 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. the revised disclosure requirements are reflected in note 11. in july 2013, the fasb issued asu 2013-10, inclusion of the fed funds effective swap rate (or overnight index swap rate) as a benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes. asu 2013-10 allows the fed funds effective swap rate (ois) to be designated as a u.s. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes, in addition to interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the u.s. government and the london interbank offered rate. the amendments also remove the restriction on using different benchmark rates for similar hedges. the amendments are effective prospectively for qualifying new or redesignated hedging relationships entered into on or after july 17, 2013. the company will apply the new guidance, as applicable, to future interest rate hedge relationships. recently issued accounting pronouncements in february 2013, the fasb issued asu 2013-04, obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting date. asu 2013-04 provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, and disclosure of obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements where the total obligation is fixed at the reporting date, and for which no specific guidance currently exists. this new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after december 15, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. we are currently assessing the impact, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. in march 2013, the fasb issued asu 2013-05, parent's accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of certain subsidiaries or groups of assets within a foreign entity or of an investment in a foreign entity. asu 2013-05 clarifies the application of gaap to the release of cumulative translation adjustments related to changes of ownership in or within foreign entities, including step acquisitions. this new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after december 15, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. in july 2013, the fasb issued asu 2013-11, presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. asu 2013-11 clarifies guidance and eliminates diversity in practice on the presentation of unrecognized tax benefits when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists at the reporting date. this new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after december 15, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. we are currently assessing the impact, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. 40 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. we actively manage material currency exposures that are associated with purchases and sales and other assets and liabilities at the operating unit level. those exposures that cannot be naturally offset to an insignificant amount are hedged with foreign currency derivatives. derivative instruments utilized by us in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2013 , a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $ 107.8 million , as compared with $ 97.4 million at december 31, 2012 . these amounts, when realized, would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying transactions. commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2013 . interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates would not have a material effect on our results of operations. 41 table of contentsrisk factors 7 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 40 additional geographic data is provided in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. 5 table of contents backlog our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at december 31 , was as follows: in millions 2014 2013 climate $ 1,499.3 $ 1,342.7 industrial 489.6 517.4 total $ 1,988.9 $ 1,860.1 these backlog figures are based on orders received. while the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. we expect to ship substantially all the december 31, 2014 backlog during 2015 . environmental matters we continue to be dedicated to an environmental program to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process and to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the environmental protection agency and similar state authorities. we have also been identified as a potentially responsible party (prp) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal superfund and state remediation sites. for all such sites, there are other prps and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal. in estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other prps who may be jointly and severally liable. the ability of other prps to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties' financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future. we incurred $ 5.2 million , $ (0.5) million , and $3.1 million of expenses during the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , respectively, for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $ 45.2 million and $ 47.9 million , respectively. of these amounts $ 36.3 million and $ 42.1 million , respectively, relate to remediation of sites previously disposed by us. our total current environmental reserve at december 31, 2014 and 2013 was $ 17.1 million and $ 13.5 million , respectively. given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain. for a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, contingent liabilities, as well as note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos related matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims have been filed against either ingersoll-rand company (ir-new jersey) or trane u.s. inc. (trane) and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. we incurred net costs after insurance recoveries of $(64.9) million , $56.2 million , and $7.8 million during the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , respectively, related to the settlement and defense of asbestos-related claims. our total liability for asbestos-related matters and our total asset for probable asbestos-related insurance recoveries were $776.6 million and $335.7 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2014 and $846.2 million and $321.8 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2013 . see also the discussion under part i, item 3, legal proceedings, and part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, contingent liabilities, as well as further detail in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. 6 table of contents employees as of december 31, 2014 , we employed approximately 43,000 people throughout the world. available information we file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934. the public may read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov. in addition, this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the board of directors of the company has also adopted and posted in the investor relations section of the company's website our corporate governance guidelines and charters for each of the board's standing committees. the contents of the company's website are not incorporated by reference in this report. certifications new york stock exchange annual chief executive officer certification the company's chief executive officer submitted to the new york stock exchange the annual ceo certification as the company's compliance with the new york stock exchange's corporate governance listing standards required by section 303a.12 of the new york stock exchange's listing standards. sarbanes-oxley act section 302 certification the certifications of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the company pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a . risk factors our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks set forth below are those we consider most significant. we face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material but could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations. you should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. in that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. our global operations subject us to economic risks. our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the u.s. and internationally, including europe, china, brazil, venezuela, africa, india, argentina, mexico and russia. these activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: changes in local laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints; limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries; imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas; difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and economic downturns, slowing economic growth and social and political instability. these risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 7 table of contents our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services. we must develop and commercialize new products and services in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. the development and commercialization of new products and services require a significant investment of resources. we cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. we also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by the market. failure to develop new products and services that are accepted by the market could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the capital and credit markets are important to our business. instability in u.s. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. in particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategies. our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. see part ii item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. our consolidated financial results reported in u.s. dollars are exposed to changes in the exchange rates used to translate certain non-u.s. operations into u.s. dollars. the majority of our net revenues are denominated in u.s. dollars or chinese yuan, which currently has a fixed rate of exchange with the u.s. dollar. the largest concentration of non-u.s. denominated sales is in the euro functional currency. if the average exchange rate used to translate revenue from euro-denominated operations into u.s. dollars were to change we are exposed to impacts on net earnings. we are also exposed to gains or losses on purchases, sales and other transactions at the operating unit level that are denominated in foreign currencies. we use derivative instruments to hedge those exposures that cannot be naturally offset to an insignificant amount. the instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business or the business operations of previously-owned entities. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, product liability and asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against the total aggregate amount of losses sustained as a result of such proceedings and contingencies. as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other events could affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 8 table of contents our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. we may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. we rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are supported by third party vendors, to manage and operate our business. we are also investing in new information technology systems that are designed to continue improving our operations. if these systems cease to function properly, if these systems experience security breaches or disruptions or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. security breaches or disruptions of our technology systems, infrastructure or products could negatively impact our business and financial results. our information technology systems and infrastructure and technology embedded in certain of our control products may be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized security intrusions. in addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly result in security breaches or disruptions. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly changing and evolving. despite having instituted security policies and business continuity plans, and implementing and regularly reviewing and updating processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access, the ever-evolving threats mean we must continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. our systems, networks and certain of our control products may be vulnerable to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events that could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information or the personally identifiable data relating to our customers, employees and business partners and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation. such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. commodity shortages and price increases and higher energy prices could adversely affect our financial results. we rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. a disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. volatility in the prices of these commodities or the impact of inflationary increases could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices. there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its costs (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. we do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against this volatility. while we use fixed price contracts to mitigate this exposure, we expect any future hedging activity to seek to minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices which would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases. additionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations in the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products, and supplying services, to customers around the world. consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. 9 table of contents our operational excellence efforts may not achieve the improvements we expect. we utilize a number of tools, such as lean six sigma, to improve operational efficiency and productivity. implementation of new processes to our operations could cause disruptions and there is no assurance that all of our planned operational excellence projects will be fully implemented or, if implemented, will realize the expected improvements. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. at december 31, 2014 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $ 5.4 billion and $ 2.6 billion , respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods recognized. changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect certain segments of the company's business and impact overall results of operations. demand for certain segments of the company's products and services is influenced by weather conditions. for instance, trane's sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of the company's business and impact overall results of operations. global climate change could negatively affect our business. refrigerants are essential to many of our products and there is a growing awareness and concern regarding global warming potential of such materials. as such, national, regional and international regulations and policies are being considered to curtail their use. as we begin to see regulations impeding the use of the current class of widely used refrigerants we are planning for, and managing transitions to, sustainable solutions. we have committed to increase energy efficiency and reduce our climate impact with operational and product-related climate targets, including among other initiatives: (i) 50 percent reduction in the greenhouse gas refrigerant footprint of our products for customers by 2020 and lower global warming potential alternatives across our portfolio by 2030; (ii) $500 million investment in product-related research and development over the next five years to fund the long-term reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; and (iii) 35 percent reduction in the greenhouse gas footprint of our office buildings, manufacturing facilities and fleet by 2020. while we are committed to pursuing these sustainable solutions, there can be no assurance that our commitments will be successful, that our products will be accepted by the market or that economic returns will match the investment that we are making in new product development. concerns regarding global climate change may result in more international, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate global warming and these regulations could mandate even more restrictive standards than the voluntary commitments that we have made or require such changes on a more accelerated timeframe. there continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. such regulatory uncertainty extends to future incentives for energy efficient buildings and vehicles and costs of compliance, which may impact the demand for our products, obsolescence of our products and our results of operations. in addition, to the extent climate change influences weather patterns, such changes could also disrupt our operations by causing business interruptions or by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. these factors may impact our decisions to construct new facilities or maintain existing facilities in areas most prone to physical climate risks. weakness in the commercial and residential construction markets may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. our commercial and residential hvac businesses, which collectively represent 60% of our net revenues, provide products and services to a wide range of markets, including significant sales to the commercial and residential construction markets. weakness in either or both of these construction markets may negatively impact the demand for our products and services. decrease in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. 10 table of contents our business strategy includes acquiring companies, entering into joint ventures and making investments that complement our existing businesses. we may not identify acquisition or joint venture candidates at the same rate as the past. acquisition, joint ventures and investments that we identify could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses and product lines, joint ventures and investments with the potential to strengthen our industry position, enhance our existing set of product and services offerings or grow revenues, earnings and cash flow. there can be no assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable candidates in the future, that we will consummate these transactions at rates similar to the past or that completed transactions will be successful. acquisitions, joint ventures and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. such transactions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired businesses or of ours; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses; dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities; and in the case of joint ventures and other investments, interests that diverge from those of our partners without the ability to direct the management and operations of the joint venture or investment in the manner we believe most appropriate. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions, joint ventures or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as such transactions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. our operations are subject to regulatory risks. our u.s. and non-u.s. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including among others, laws related to the environment and health and safety. we have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. the u.s. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to u.s. companies that reincorporate outside of the u.s. or have reincorporated outside of the u.s or may take other actions negatively impacting such companies. our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions. if we are unable to effectively respond to changes to applicable laws and regulations or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. risks relating to our past spin-off transaction in december 2013, we completed the spin-off of our former commercial and residential security businesses to our shareholders (the spin-off) pursuant to which each shareholder as of the record date for the spin-off received one ordinary share of allegion, plc (allegion) for every three ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shares. allegion is now an independent public company. this spin-off exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the spin-off and subsequent to the spin-off will be realized. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders as of the time of the distribution that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or allegion could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we received a ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of allegion plc's ordinary shares, together with certain related transactions, will qualify for tax-free treatment under sections 355 and 368(a) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), with the result that we and our shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, 11 table of contents except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares (the irs ruling ). the irs ruling also provides that specified internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition, we received opinions from the law firm of simpson thacher &amp; bartlett llp substantially to the effect that specified requirements, including certain requirements that the irs will not rule on, necessary to obtain tax-free treatment have been satisfied, such that the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes and certain other matters relating to the distribution, including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution, will receive tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the irs ruling and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the irs ruling and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in shares or asset ownership after the distribution. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser's best legal judgment and is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. in addition, the opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution, and/or internal transactions, ultimately is determined to be taxable, we or allegion could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities, which could cause a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. furthermore, if, notwithstanding receipt of the irs ruling and opinions, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each shareholder subject to u.s. federal income tax who received shares of allegion in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the allegion shares received. that distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of our then-current and accumulated earnings and profits. any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the applicable shareholder's tax basis in our ordinary shares with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. under the terms of the tax matters agreement between us and allegion executed in connection with the spin-off, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us or allegion, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or allegion as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us or allegion, then allegion would be responsible for any taxes imposed on us or allegion as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. if allegion were to default in its obligation to us to pay such taxes, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of tax liabilities. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances as a result of the distribution because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. we may be deterred from engaging in significant equity transactions in order to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distribution. even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in corporate-level taxable gain to us and certain of our affiliates under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our shares or allegion's shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. any acquisitions or issuances of our shares or allegion's shares within two years after the distribution will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or allegion may be able to rebut that presumption. as a result, we may not pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that would otherwise maximize the value of our business. if the distribution is determined to be taxable for irish tax purposes, significant irish tax liabilities may arise. we received an opinion of the irish revenue regarding the irish tax consequences of the distribution to the effect that certain reliefs and exemptions for corporate reorganizations apply. in addition to obtaining the opinion from irish revenue, we also received opinions from the law firm of arthur cox confirming the applicability of the relevant exemptions and reliefs to the distribution as well as received opinions from other external advisers that certain internal transactions will not trigger irish tax costs as well. these opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the opinions, irish revenue could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions do not qualify for the relevant exemptions or reliefs if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser's best legal judgment and is not binding on irish revenue or the courts and irish revenue or the courts may not agree with the legal opinion. in addition, the legal opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution ultimately is determined not to fall within certain exemptions or reliefs, the distribution could result in certain of our shareholders having an irish tax liability as a result of the distribution, or we or allegion 12 table of contents could incur irish tax liabilities. to the extent we are responsible for any such liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. risks relating to our past reorganizations we effected a corporate reorganization in december 2001 to become a bermuda company (the bermuda reorganization) and a subsequent corporate reorganization in july 2009 to become an irish public limited company. these reorganizations exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations will be realized. changes in tax or other laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under u.s. or non-u.s. laws or adverse determinations by taxing or other governmental authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations could be impacted by changes in tax or other laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. or non-u.s. tax or other governmental authorities. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for instance, recent u.s. legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident for u.s. tax purposes, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations. there are other recent u.s. legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. moreover, other u.s. legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our u.s. subsidiaries to our non-u.s. affiliates, which could increase our tax liability. we cannot predict the outcome of any of these potential changes in any jurisdiction. while we monitor proposals and other developments that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals or regulatory changes are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax or other laws is challenged and determined to be incorrect. in particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the ireland reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation. while our u.s. operations are subject to u.s. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-u.s. operations are generally not subject to u.s. tax other than withholding taxes. the irs or a court, however, may not concur with our conclusions including our determination that we, and a significant number of our foreign subsidiaries, are not controlled foreign corporations (cfc) within the meaning of the u.s. tax laws. a contrary determination, which could also arise through significant future acquisitions of our stock by u.s. persons, could also potentially cause u.s. holders (direct, indirect or constructive owners) of 10% or more of our stock (or the voting stock of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) to include in their gross income their pro rata share of certain of our and our non-u.s. subsidiary income for the period during which we (and our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc. in addition, gain (or a portion of such gain) realized on cfc shares sold by such shareholders may be treated as ordinary income depending on certain facts. treatment of us or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries as a cfc could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. as described further in legal proceedings, we have received several notices from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with audits of the 2001-2006 tax years. the irs has not contested the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda in any of these notices. we have and intend to continue to vigorously contest all of these proposed adjustments. although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for these matters and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. as we move forward to resolve these matters with the irs, the reserves established may be adjusted. although we continue to contest the irs's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. if the irs's position with respect to 2002-2006 is ultimately sustained, we would be required to record additional charges and the resulting liability would have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. furthermore, a substantial amount of information has been provided to the irs in connection with its audit of our 2007-2011 tax years. we expect the irs to propose similar adjustments with respect to the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda, although we do not know how the irs will apply its position to the different facts presented in these years or whether the irs will take a similar position with respect to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years. 13 table of contents the inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our reorganizations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on u.s. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. in addition, irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. also, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. under irish law, these authorizations must be renewed by the shareholders every five years and we cannot guarantee that these authorizations will always be approved. beginning with the 2014 proxy season, institutional shareholder services (iss) began taking the position that irish companies should limit these authorizations in terms of the number of authorized but unissued shares that can be issued without shareholder approval to 33% of such company's issued ordinary share capital, the number of shares that can be issued without pre-emptive rights to up to 5% of such company's issued ordinary share capital and the duration of the authorizations to eighteen months. if we are required to conform these authorizations to the iss standards in order to obtain shareholder approval, we will be limited in our ability to issue shares in ways that u.s. companies are not limited and will need to renew the authorizations even more frequently than the five-year period provided under irish law. dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, we are required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. in the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the united states will not be subject to irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain irish dividend withholding tax forms. however, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ir-ireland. our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ir-ireland. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties as of december 31, 2014 , we owned or leased a total of approximately 14 million square feet of space worldwide. manufacturing and assembly operations are conducted in 50 plants across the world. we also maintain various warehouses, offices and repair centers throughout the world. the majority of our plant facilities are owned by us with the remainder under long-term lease arrangements. we believe that our plants have been well maintained, are generally in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. 14 table of contents the locations by segment of our principal plant facilities at december 31, 2014 were as follows: climate americas europe asia pacific and india curitiba, brazil kolin, czech republic zhong shan, china monterrey, mexico charmes, france taicang, china arecibo, puerto rico golbey, france chennai, india fort smith, arkansas galway, ireland penang, malaysia pueblo, colorado barcelona, spain samut prakan, thailand lynn haven, florida macon, georgia vidalia, georgia rushville, indiana lexington, kentucky st. paul, minnesota hastings, nebraska trenton, new jersey columbia, south carolina clarksville, tennessee tyler, texas waco, texas la crosse, wisconsin industrial americas europe asia pacific and india dorval, canada unicov, czech republic changzhou, china augusta, georgia sin le noble, france guilin, china campbellsville, kentucky wasquehal, france nanjing, china madison heights, michigan oberhausen, germany wujiang, china mocksville, north carolina fogliano redipuglia, italy naroda, india southern pines, north carolina vignate, italy sahibabad, india west chester, pennsylvania logatec, slovenia kent, washington item 3. legal proceedings in the normal course of business, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, including commercial and contract disputes, employment matters, product liability claims, asbestos-related claims, environmental liabilities, intellectual property disputes, and tax-related matters. in our opinion, pending legal matters are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. tax related matters in 2007, we received a notice from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years. the irs did not contest the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda. the irs proposed to ignore the entities that hold the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda (the 2001 debt ) and to which the interest was paid and impose 30% withholding tax on a portion of the interest payments as if they were made directly to a company that was not eligible for reduced u.s. withholding tax under a u.s. income tax treaty. the irs asserted that we owe additional taxes with respect to 2002 of approximately $84 million plus interest. in 2010, we received an amended notice from the irs assessing penalties of 30% on the asserted underpayment of tax described above. we have so far been unsuccessful in resolving this dispute and in 2013 received a notice of deficiency from the irs for 2002. the company filed a petition in the united states tax court in november 2013 contesting this deficiency. in its january 2014 15 table of contents answer to our petition, the irs asserted that we also owe 30% withholding tax on the portion of 2002 interest payments made on the 2001 debt upon which it did not previously assert withholding tax. this increases the total tax liability proposed for 2002 to $109.0 million ( $84.0 million referred to in the paragraph above plus an additional $25.0 million ) plus 30% penalties and interest. in 2013, we received notices from the irs containing proposed adjustments to the company's tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2003-2006 tax years. in these notices, the irs asserts that we owe a total of approximately $665 million of additional taxes, as described more fully in the two paragraphs below, in connection with our interest payments on the 2001 debt for the 2003-2006 period, plus penalties and interest on these unpaid taxes. the irs continues to take the position on the 2001 debt, which was retired at the end of 2011, that it previously took for our 2002 tax year and which is described above. as a result of this recharacterization, the irs asserts that we owe approximately $455 million of withholding tax for 2003-2006 plus 30% penalties. the irs also proposes to extend its position further and to treat all of the interest income from the 2001 debt as creating earnings and profits at ir-limited and, as a result, recharacterize the distributions made by ir-limited during the 2002-2006 tax years as taxable dividends instead of as a return of capital. consequently the irs asserts that we owe approximately $210 million of income tax on these dividends plus penalties of 20% . we strongly disagree with the view of the irs and filed a protest in january 2014 for the 2003-2006 tax years. furthermore, a substantial amount of information has been provided to the irs in connection with its audit of our 2007-2011 tax years. we expect the irs to propose similar adjustments with respect to the 2001 debt, although we do not know how the irs will apply its position to the different facts presented in these years or whether the irs will take a similar position with respect to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years. we have vigorously contested all of these proposed adjustments and intend to continue to do so. although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position we believe that we are adequately reserved under the applicable accounting standards for these matters and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. as we move forward to resolve these matters with the irs, the reserves established may be adjusted. although we continue to contest the irs's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. if the irs's position with respect to the 2002-2006 tax years is ultimately sustained we would be required to record additional charges and the resulting liability would have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of any tax disputes, but will adjust our reserves if events so dictate in accordance with gaap. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes. for a further discussion of tax matters, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos-related matters certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims have been filed against either ir-new jersey or trane and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by ir-new jersey or trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. neither ir-new jersey nor trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers. see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, contingent liabilities, and also note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. 16 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following is a list of executive officers of the company as of february 13, 2015 . name and age date of service as an executive officer principal occupation and other information for past five years michael w. lamach (51) 2/16/2004 chairman of the board (since june 2010) and chief executive officer and president (since february 2010); president and chief operating officer (2009-2010); senior vice president and president, trane commercial systems (2008-2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2004-2008) susan k. carter (56) 10/2/2013 senior vice president and chief financial officer (since october 2013); kbr inc. (a global engineering, construction and services business), executive vice president and chief financial officer (2009-2013); lennox international inc. (a heating, air conditioning and refrigeration company), executive vice president and chief financial officer (2004 to 2009) marcia j. avedon (53) 2/7/2007 senior vice president, human resources, communications and corporate affairs (since june 2013); senior vice president, human resources and communications (2007 - 2013) paul a. camuti (53) 8/1/2011 senior vice president, innovation and chief technology officer (since august 2011); president, smart grid applications, siemens energy, inc. (an energy technology subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2010 -2011); president, research division, siemens corporation (a diversified global technology company) (2009 - 2010); president and chief executive officer, siemens corporate research, inc. (the research subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2005 - 2009) robert l. katz (52) 11/1/2010 senior vice president and general counsel (since november 2010); federal- mogul corporation (a global automotive supplier), senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary (2007-2010) gary s. michel (52) 8/1/2011 senior vice president and president, residential hvac (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, residential solutions (2011-2013); president and chief executive officer, club car (2007 - 2011) didier teirlinck (58) 6/4/2008 executive vice president ingersoll rand, climate segment (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, climate solutions (2009-2013); president, climate control technologies (2008-2009); president, climate control europe (2005-2008) todd d. wyman (47) 11/16/2009 senior vice president, global operations and integrated supply chain: (since november 2009); ge transportation (a unit of general electric company), vice president, global supply chain (2007-2009) robert g. zafari (56) 7/1/2010 executive vice president ingersoll rand, industrial segment (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, industrial technologies (2010-2013); president, tcs and climate solutions emeia (2009-2010); president, security technologies esa (2007-2008) richard j. weller (58) 9/8/2008 vice president and controller (since september 2008); vice president, finance (2008); vice president, finance, security technologies sector (2005-2008) no family relationship exists between any of the above-listed executive officers of the company. all officers are elected to hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. 17 table of contents item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities information regarding the principal market for our ordinary shares and related shareholder matters is as follows: our ordinary shares are traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir. as of february 2, 2015 , the approximate number of record holders of ordinary shares was 3,910 . the high and low sales price per share and the dividend declared per share for the following periods were as follows: ordinary shares 2014 high low dividend first quarter $ 62.88 $ 55.70 $ 0.25 second quarter 63.99 54.39 0.25 third quarter 64.50 56.36 0.25 fourth quarter 64.59 53.57 0.25 2013 high low dividend first quarter (a) $ 56.77 $ 48.06 $ second quarter 58.92 52.03 0.21 third quarter 66.62 55.32 0.21 fourth quarter (b) 71.75 54.83 0.21 (a) in december 2012, we declared a dividend of $ 0.21 per ordinary share payable on march 28, 2013 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2013. (b) on december 1, 2013, we spun off our commercial and residential security businesses to our shareholders. each of our shareholders of record as of november 22, 2013 received one ordinary share of allegion for every three ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shares owned. future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the irish companies act. under the irish companies act, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits of ingersoll-rand plc (ir-ireland). in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of ir-ireland are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of ir-ireland's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce ir-ireland's net assets below such aggregate. information regarding equity compensation plans required to be disclosed pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the annual general meeting of shareholders. 18 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the following table provides information with respect to purchases by the company of its ordinary shares during the quarter ended december 31, 2014 : period total number of shares purchased (000's) (a) (b) average price paid per share (a) (b) total number of shares purchased as part of program (000's) (a) approximate dollar value of shares still available to be purchased under the program ($000's) (a) october 1 - october 31 1,445.5 $ 56.74 1,444.5 $ 1,036,638 november 1 - november 30 1,238.6 62.64 1,213.2 960,639 december 1 - december 31 702.0 63.04 697.9 916,639 total 3,386.1 $ 60.21 3,355.6 (a) in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program, which began in april 2014. based on market conditions, share repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions at the discretion of management. the repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date. (b) we may also reacquire shares outside of the repurchase program from time to time in connection with the surrender of shares to cover taxes on vesting of share based awards. we reacquired 1,005 shares in october; 25,442 shares in november; and 4,058 shares in december in transactions outside the repurchase programs. 19 table of contents performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our ordinary shares with the cumulative total return on (i) the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and (ii) the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index for the five years ended december 31, 2014 . the graph assumes an investment of $100 in our ordinary shares, the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index on december 31, 2009 and assumes the reinvestment of dividends. company/index 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ingersoll rand 100 133 87 139 227 237 s&amp;p 500 100 115 117 136 180 205 s&amp;p 500 industrials index 100 127 126 145 204 224 20 table of contents item 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts: at and for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 net revenues $ 12,891.4 $ 12,350.5 $ 11,988.3 $ 12,760.8 $ 12,033.4 net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations 897.0 620.1 772.4 123.4 505.2 discontinued operations 34.7 (1.3 ) 246.2 219.8 137.0 total assets 17,298.5 17,658.1 18,482.1 18,819.6 20,078.0 total debt 4,224.4 3,521.2 3,229.4 3,637.6 3,677.8 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 5,987.4 7,068.9 7,147.8 6,924.3 7,981.3 earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic: continuing operations $ 3.32 $ 2.11 $ 2.54 $ 0.38 $ 1.56 discontinued operations 0.12 0.81 0.68 0.42 diluted: continuing operations $ 3.27 $ 2.08 $ 2.49 $ 0.36 $ 1.49 discontinued operations 0.13 (0.01 ) 0.79 0.65 0.40 dividends declared per ordinary share $ 1.00 $ 0.63 $ 0.69 $ 0.59 $ 0.28 1. 2011 amounts represent the operating results of the hussmann business and branches through their respective divestiture and transaction dates of september 30, 2011 and november 30, 2011, including an after-tax loss on sale and impairment charges of $ 546 million . 2. 2011 dividends declared per ordinary share includes a dividend of $ 0.16 per ordinary share, declared in december 2011, and payable on march 30, 2012 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2012. 3. 2012 dividends declared per ordinary share includes a dividend of $ 0.21 per ordinary share, declared in december 2012, and payable on march 28, 2013 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2013. 21 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this annual report. overview organization we are a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. our business segments consist of climate and industrial, both with strong brands and leading positions within their respective markets. we generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as ingersoll-rand , trane , thermo king , american standard and club car . to achieve our mission of being a world leader in creating comfortable, sustainable and efficient environments, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream from parts, service, used equipment and rentals; and to continuously improve the efficiencies and capabilities of the products and services of our high-potential businesses. additional emphasis is placed on expanding market coverage in terms of geography or by taking advantage of a particular vertical market or opportunity. we also continue to focus on operational excellence strategies as a central theme to improving our earnings and cash flows. trends and economic events we are a global corporation with worldwide operations. as a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors, as well as political factors, wherever we operate or do business. our geographic and industry diversity, and the breadth of our product and services portfolios, have helped mitigate the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. given the broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the company. we monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. we regularly perform detailed evaluations of the different market segments we are serving to proactively detect trends and to adapt our strategies accordingly. in addition, we believe our order rates are indicative of future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. in those industry segments where we are a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. current market conditions remain challenging across different international markets. residential and commercial new construction activity are slowly recovering in the united states. this is impacting the results of our commercial heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) business. non-residential new construction remains sluggish in europe and is growing at slower pace in asia. however, hvac equipment replacement and aftermarket continue to experience steady growth. we have seen slower worldwide industrial equipment and aftermarket activity. as economic conditions stabilize, we expect moderate growth in worldwide construction markets and slow growth in industrial markets, along with benefits from productivity programs for the remainder of the year. despite the current market environment, we believe we have a solid foundation of global brands and leading market shares in all of our major product lines. our growing geographic and industry diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service, parts and replacement revenue streams. in addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which we expect will drive our future growth. 22 table of contents significant events in 2014 announcement to acquire cameron international corporation's centrifugal compression division on august 18, 2014, the company announced an agreement to acquire the assets of cameron international corporation's centrifugal compression division (the division) for $ 850 million . the acquisition was completed on january 1, 2015, and was funded through a combination of cash from operations and debt. the division provides centrifugal compression equipment and aftermarket parts and services for global industrial applications, air separation, gas transmission and process. the assets acquired and the results of its operations will be reflected in our consolidated financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2015. issuance of senior notes due 2020, 2024, and 2044 in october 2014, we issued $ 1.1 billion principal amount of senior notes in three tranches through a newly-created wholly-owned subsidiary, ingersoll-rand luxembourg finance s.a. (ir-lux). the tranches consist of $ 300 million of 2.625% senior notes due in 2020, $ 500 million of 3.55% senior notes due 2024, and $ 300 million of 4.65% senior notes due in 2044. the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ingersoll-rand plc (ir-ireland) and certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. the proceeds from the notes were primarily used to (i) fund the october 2014 redemption of the $ 200 million of 5.50% notes due 2015 and $ 300 million 4.75% senior notes due 2015, and (ii) fund the acquisition of cameron international corporation's centrifugal compression division on january 1, 2015. related to the redemption, the company recognized $ 10.2 million of premium expense in interest expense. for additional information regarding the terms of the notes and the related guarantees, see notes 7 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 2014 dividend increase and share repurchase activity in february 2015, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.25 to $0.29 per share beginning with our march 2015 payment. in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program. the new share repurchase program began in the second quarter of 2014. during 2014 , the company repurchased 23.0 million shares for $ 1.4 billion , of which 9.8 million shares for $583.4 million were under the 2014 program. shares repurchased prior to october 2014 were canceled upon repurchase and beginning in october 2014, repurchased shares were held in treasury and recognized at cost. in december 2012, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program. the share repurchase program began in april 2013, and during 2013, we repurchased 20.8 million shares for $1.2 billion, excluding commissions. the remaining $0.8 billion of repurchases authorized under this program were made during the first and second quarter of 2014. venezuela currency devaluation in february 2013, the government of venezuela announced a devaluation of the bolivar, from the pre-existing official exchange rate obtained through the national center of foreign trade (cencoex, formerly cadivi through april 2014) of 4.29 bolivars to the u.s. dollar to 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. we have one subsidiary with operations in venezuela. due to the designation of venezuela as highly inflationary, the u.s. dollar was determined to be the functional currency for this subsidiary. as a result of the devaluation, we realized a foreign currency translation loss of approximately $3.8 million in the year ended december 31, 2013. in january 2014, the venezuelan government significantly expanded the use of the supplementary foreign currency administration system (sicad) i exchange market and created a third exchange market called sicad ii. these markets have exchange rates significantly less favorable than the cencoex rate. the venezuelan government also indicated that the cencoex rate will be reserved for purchases of essential goods and services. in february 2015, the venezuelan government announced a new exchange market called the marginal currency system (simadi), which will replace the sicad ii exchange and allow for trading based on supply and demand. an exchange rate for the simadi market has not been published. the financial position and results of our venezuelan subsidiary as of december 31, 2014, are reflected in usd utilizing the cencoex rate and not the december 31, 2014 sicad i (12.0 bolivars to $1.00), sicad ii (49.98 bolivars to $1.00) or simadi rates due to our belief that our imports will continue to qualify for the cencoex rate and our intent to continue to pursue this rate for future exchanges. however, we will continue to monitor the evolving venezuela exchange market, including the establishment of the new simadi exchange market. as of december 31, 2014, we had net monetary assets of approximately 273 million bolivars. for 2014, annual net revenues of our venezuela subsidiary were approximately 300 million bolivars. further devaluation of the bolivar, or our inability to convert our net monetary assets denominated in bolivars into us dollars at certain of the exchange rates discussed above, could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. 23 table of contents irs exam results in 2007, we received a notice from the irs containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years. the irs did not contest the validity of our reincorporation in bermuda. the irs proposed to ignore the entities that hold the intercompany debt incurred in connection with our reincorporation in bermuda (the 2001 debt ) and to which the interest was paid and impose 30% withholding tax on a portion of the interest payments as if they were made directly to a company that was not eligible for reduced u.s. withholding tax under a u.s. income tax treaty. the irs asserted that we owe additional taxes with respect to 2002 of approximately $84 million plus interest. in 2010, we received an amended notice from the irs assessing penalties of 30% on the asserted underpayment of tax described above. we have so far been unsuccessful in resolving this dispute and in 2013 received a notice of deficiency from the irs for 2002. the company filed a petition in the united states tax court in november 2013 contesting this deficiency. in its january 2014 answer to our petition, the irs asserted that we also owe 30% withholding tax on the portion of 2002 interest payments made on the 2001 debt upon which it did not previously assert withholding tax. this increases the total tax liability proposed for 2002 to $109.0 million ( $84 million referred to in the paragraph above plus an additional $25.0 million ) plus 30% penalties and interest. in 2013, we received notices from the irs containing proposed adjustments to the company's tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2003-2006 tax years. in these notices, the irs asserts that we owe a total of approximately $665.0 million of additional taxes, as described more fully in the two paragraphs below, in connection with our interest payments on the 2001 debt for the 2003-2006 period, plus penalties and interest on these unpaid taxes. the irs continues to take the position on the 2001 debt, which was retired at the end of 2011, that it previously took for our 2002 tax year and which is described above. as a result of this recharacterization, the irs asserts that we owe approximately $455.0 million of withholding tax for 2003-2006 plus 30% penalties. the irs also proposes to extend its position further and to treat all of the interest income from the 2001 debt as creating earnings and profits at ir-limited and, as a result, recharacterize the distributions made by ir-limited during the 2002-2006 tax years as taxable dividends instead of as a return of capital. consequently the irs asserts that we owe approximately $210.0 million of income tax on these dividends plus penalties of 20% . we strongly disagree with the view of the irs and filed a protest in january 2014 for the 2003-2006 tax years. furthermore, a substantial amount of information has been provided to the irs in connection with its audit of our 2007-2011 tax years. we expect the irs to propose similar adjustments with respect to the 2001 debt, although we do not know how the irs will apply its position to the different facts presented in these years or whether the irs will take a similar position with respect to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years. we have vigorously contested all of these proposed adjustments and intend to continue to do so. although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position we believe that we are adequately reserved under the applicable accounting standards for these matters and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. as we move forward to resolve these matters with the irs, the reserves established may be adjusted. although we continue to contest the irs's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. if the irs's position with respect to the 2002-2006 tax years is ultimately sustained we would be required to record additional charges and the resulting liability would have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of any tax disputes, but will adjust our reserves if events so dictate in accordance with gaap. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes. significant events in 2013 allegion spin-off on december 1, 2013, the company completed the previously announced separation of its commercial and residential security businesses by distributing the related ordinary shares of allegion, on a pro rata basis, to the company's shareholders of record as of november 22, 2013. following the spin-off, allegion became an independent publicly traded company. we do not beneficially own any ordinary shares of allegion, and no longer consolidate allegion into our financial results. allegion's historical financial results for all periods prior to december 1, 2013 are presented as a discontinued operation in our consolidated financial statements. see discontinued operations within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and also note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our discontinued operations. issuance of senior notes due 2019, 2023, and 2043 in june 2013, we issued $1.55 billion principal amount of senior notes in three tranches through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ingersoll-rand global holding company limited (ir-global) pursuant to rule 144a of the u.s. securities act of 1933 (securities 24 table of contents act). the tranches consist of $350 million of 2.875% senior notes due in 2019, $700 million of 4.250% senior notes due in 2023, and $500 million of 5.750% senior notes due in 2043. later in 2013, the notes were modified to include ir-jersey as a co-obligor. the notes are also fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ir-ireland and certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. the proceeds from these notes were primarily used to fund the july 2013 redemption of $600 million of 6.000% senior notes due 2013 and $655 million of 9.500% senior notes due 2014 and to fund expenses related to the spin-off of the commercial and residential security businesses. related to this redemption, the company recorded $ 45.6 million of premium expense in interest expense. for additional information regarding the terms of the notes and the related guarantees, see notes 7 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 25 table of contents results of operations - for the years ended december 31 dollar amounts in millions, except per share data 2014 % of revenues 2013 % of revenues 2012 % of revenues net revenues $ 12,891.4 $ 12,350.5 $ 11,988.3 cost of goods sold (8,982.8 ) 69.8% (8,722.3 ) 70.6% (8,533.5 ) 71.2% selling and administrative expenses (2,503.9 ) 19.4% (2,523.2 ) 20.4% (2,382.9 ) 19.9% operating income 1,404.7 10.9% 1,105.0 8.9% 1,071.9 8.9% interest expense (225.3 ) (278.8 ) (252.0 ) other, net 30.0 3.4 28.1 earnings before income taxes 1,209.4 829.6 848.0 provision for income taxes (293.7 ) (189.0 ) (56.0 ) earnings from continuing operations 915.7 640.6 792.0 discontinued operations, net of tax 34.7 13.3 252.0 net earnings 950.4 653.9 1,044.0 less: net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (18.7 ) (35.1 ) (25.4 ) net earnings attributable to ingersoll-rand plc $ 931.7 $ 618.8 $ 1,018.6 diluted net earnings (loss) per ordinary share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations $ 3.27 $ 2.08 $ 2.49 discontinued operations 0.13 (0.01 ) 0.79 net earnings $ 3.40 $ 2.07 $ 3.28 net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014 increased by 4.4% , or $ 540.9 million , compared with the same period of 2013 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 4.6 % pricing 0.5 % currency exchange rates (0.7 )% total 4.4 % the increase in revenues was primarily driven by volume improvements within the climate and industrial segments. net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased by 3.0% , or $ 362.2 million , compared with the same period of 2012 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 2.3 % pricing 0.7 % total 3.0 % the increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher volumes and improved pricing across both segments. operating income/margin operating margin improved to 10.9% for the year ended december 31, 2014 , compared to 8.9% for the same period of 2013 . the increase was primarily due to productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (1.1%), favorable product mix and volume (0.6%), improved pricing net of material inflation (0.2%) and decreased restructuring spending (0.6%), partially offset by increased investment (0.5%). operating margin remained flat at 8.9% for the years ended december 31, 2013 , and 2012. during 2013, we experienced improved pricing in excess of material inflation (0.5%) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.4%), offset by increased investment and restructuring spending (0.9%). during 2013 and 2012, the company incurred costs of $82.3 million and $23.3 26 table of contents million, respectively, associated with ongoing restructuring actions. these actions included workforce reductions as well as the closure and consolidation of manufacturing facilities in an effort to improve the company's cost structure. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2014 decreased by $ 53.5 million compared with the same period of 2013 , primarily as a result of lower redemption premium expense from early debt retirements ($10.2 million in 2014 compared to $45.6 million in 2013) and lower interest rates on refinanced debt, as discussed in liquidity and capital resources. interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased by $ 26.8 million compared with the same period of 2012 , primarily as a result of the redemption premium expense incurred during the july 2013 debt redemption. other, net the components of other, net, for the year ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2014 2013 2012 interest income $ 13.2 $ 12.8 $ 16.3 exchange gain (loss) (0.1 ) (14.0 ) 0.2 earnings (loss) from equity investments 7.8 (2.6 ) (5.9 ) other 9.1 7.2 17.5 other, net $ 30.0 $ 3.4 $ 28.1 exchange gain (loss) for the year ended december 31, 2013 includes a loss of approximately $3.8 million related to the devaluation of the venezuela bolivar. for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , we recognized equity earnings (loss) of $ 7.8 million , $ (2.6) million and $ (5.9) million , respectively, from our 37.2% ownership interest in hussmann, a refrigeration display case business. other activity for the year ended december 31, 2014 includes a $ 6.0 million gain on the sale of an investment. other activity in 2012 includes adjustments to insurance receivables as a result of favorable settlements. provision for income taxes the 2014 effective tax rate was 24.3%. the 2014 effective tax rate is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate have a lower effective rate partially offset by u.s. state and local income taxes and u.s. tax on non-u.s. earnings. revenues from non-u.s. jurisdictions account for approximately 40% of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income is earned and taxed outside the u.s. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. when comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between u.s. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability on our overall effective tax rate. the 2013 effective tax rate was 22.8%. the 2013 effective tax rate is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate, have a lower effective rate and a $36 million net reduction in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits primarily due to the settlement of an audit in a major tax jurisdiction, partially offset by a tax charge of $51 million as a result of a change in assertion in certain subsidiary earnings that the company has previously determined to be permanently reinvested and approximately $74 million of allegion spin-off tax charges, primarily related to a net increase in our valuation allowances on certain deferred tax assets. the 2012 effective tax rate was 6.6%, which included a tax benefit of approximately $140.0 million resulting from a reduction in valuation allowances on certain non-u.s. deferred tax assets. the 2012 effective tax rate is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate, have a lower effective rate and a reduction in valuation allowances mentioned above, partially offset by a net increase in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. for a further discussion of tax matters, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. review of business segments the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each segment included in continuing operations. segment operating income is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate the financial performance of the business and as the basis for performance reviews, compensation and resource allocation. for these reasons, we believe that segment operating income represents the most relevant measure of segment profit and loss. we may exclude certain charges or gains from operating income to arrive at a segment operating income that is a more meaningful measure of 27 table of contents profit and loss upon which to base our operating decisions. we define segment operating margin as segment operating income as a percentage of net revenues. climate our climate segment delivers energy-efficient solutions globally and includes trane and american standard heating &amp; air conditioning which provide heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) systems, and commercial and residential building services, parts, support and controls; and thermo king , the leader in transport temperature control solutions. climate segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2014 % change 2013 % change 2012 net revenues $ 9,879.7 4.9% $ 9,414.0 4.1% $ 9,042.5 segment operating income 1,195.6 27.7% 936.0 14.5% 817.6 segment operating margin 12.1 % 9.9 % 9.0 % 2014 vs 2013 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014 increased by 4.9% or $ 465.7 million , compared with the same period of 2013 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 5.0 % pricing 0.6 % currency exchange rates (0.7 )% total 4.9 % commercial hvac net revenues increased due to improvements in equipment, parts, services and solutions markets. residential hvac net revenues increased due to increased volume in all major product categories. thermo king refrigerated transport revenues increases in north america were partially offset by declines overseas. segment operating margin improved to 12.1% for the year ended december 31, 2014 , compared to 9.9% for the same period of 2013 . the improvement was primarily driven by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (1.2%), favorable volume/product mix (0.6%), pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.2%) and decreased restructuring spending (0.4%); partially offset by increased investment spending (0.2%). 2013 vs 2012 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased by 4.1% or $ 371.5 million , compared with the same period of 2012 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 3.5 % pricing 0.8 % currency exchange rates (0.2 )% total 4.1 % commercial hvac business was impacted by weakness in the worldwide commercial building markets. commercial hvac revenues increased due to improvements in both equipment and parts, services and solutions markets. residential hvac revenues increased due to increased volume in all equipment categories. these improvements were slightly offset by a continued mix shift to lower seer units. thermo king refrigerated transport net revenues increased driven by improvements in the americas and europe. segment operating margin improved to 9.9% for the year ended december 31, 2013 , compared to 9.0% for the same period of 2012 . the improvement was primarily driven by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.8%), pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.6%) and favorable volume/product mix (0.2%). these improvements were partially offset by increased investment and restructure spending (0.7). industrial our industrial segment delivers products and services that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. it includes ingersoll rand compressed air systems and services, power tools and material handling systems, aro fluid management equipment, as well as club car golf, utility and rough terrain vehicles. 28 table of contents segment results for the years ended december 31 were as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2014 % change 2013 % change 2012 net revenues $ 3,011.7 2.6 % $ 2,936.5 (0.3 )% $ 2,945.8 segment operating income 443.0 (1.6 )% 450.3 (1.2 )% 455.8 segment operating margin 14.7 % 15.3 % 15.5 % 2014 vs 2013 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014 increased by 2.6% or $ 75.2 million , compared with the same period of 2013 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 3.2 % pricing 0.3 % currency exchange rates (0.9 )% total 2.6 % air compressors and industrial product net revenues increased with gains in americas. club car net revenues increased with growth in both golf car and utility vehicle sales. segment operating margin decreased to 14.7% for the year end december 31, 2014 compared to compared to 15.3% for the same period of 2013 . the decrease was due to increased investment spending (1.2%), partially offset by lower restructuring spending (0.4%) and favorable volume/product mix (0.2%). 2013 vs 2012 net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013 decreased by 0.3% , or $ 9.3 million , compared with the same period of 2012 , which primarily resulted from the following: pricing 0.6 % currency exchange rates 0.3 % volume/product mix (1.2 )% total (0.3 )% air compressors and industrial net revenues decreased due to declines in equipment sales, partially offset by growth in parts, service and solutions. club car revenues increased due to growth in both the golf car and utility vehicle markets. segment operating margin remained mostly flat for the year ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 . productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (1.0%) were offset by increased investment and restructuring spending (0.7%) and unfavorable volume/product mix (0.5%). discontinued operations the components of discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2014 2013 2012 net revenues $ $ 1,889.9 $ 2,046.6 pre-tax earnings (loss) from operations 41.2 84.7 379.5 pre-tax gain (loss) on sale 2.3 tax benefit (expense) (6.5 ) (71.4 ) (129.8 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ 34.7 $ 13.3 $ 252.0 discontinued operations by business for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2014 2013 2012 allegion spin-off, net of tax $ 15.0 $ 12.4 $ 254.2 other discontinued operations, net of tax 19.7 0.9 (2.2 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ 34.7 $ 13.3 $ 252.0 29 table of contents allegion spin-off on december 1, 2013, (the distribution date) we completed the spin-off of our commercial and residential security businesses, now under the name of allegion, plc (allegion), to our shareholders (the spin-off). on the distribution date, each of our shareholders of record as of the close of business on november 22, 2013 (the record date) received one ordinary share of allegion for every three ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shares held as of the record date. allegion is now an independently traded public company. net revenues and after-tax earnings of allegion for the year ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2014 2013 2012 net revenues $ $ 1,889.9 $ 2,046.6 after-tax earnings (loss) from operations $ 15.0 $ 12.4 $ 254.2 after-tax earnings from allegion for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily represent adjustments for certain tax matters. after-tax earnings from allegion for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 include spin costs of $128.0 million and $5.7 million , respectively. also, the 2013 results include non-cash goodwill charges and tax of $111.4 million and $148.2 million , respectively. other discontinued operations the components of other discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 were as follows: in millions 2014 2013 2012 retained costs, net of tax $ 19.7 $ 0.9 $ (16.2 ) net gain (loss) on disposals, net of tax 14.0 discontinued operations, net of tax $ 19.7 $ 0.9 $ (2.2 ) other discontinued operations, net of tax for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 are mainly related to postretirement benefits, product liability, worker's compensation, and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related) from previously sold businesses and tax effects of post-closing purchase price adjustments. retained costs recognized in 2012 are primarily related to the settlement of post-closing matters with doosan infracore related to its 2007 acquisition of our bobcat utility equipment and attachments business in 2007. liquidity and capital resources we earn a significant amount of our operating income in jurisdictions where it is deemed to be permanently reinvested. our most prominent jurisdiction of operation is the u.s. we currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate funds to the u.s., and no provision for u.s. income taxes has been made with respect to such earnings. we expect existing cash and cash equivalents available to the u.s., the cash generated by our u.s. operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital and debt markets will be sufficient to fund our u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. in addition, we expect existing non-u.s. cash and cash equivalents and the cash generated by our non-u.s. operations will be sufficient to fund our non-u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. should we require more capital in the u.s. than is generated by our u.s. operations, and we determine that repatriation of non-u.s. cash is necessary, such amounts would be subject to u.s. federal income taxes. in february 2015, we announced an increase in our quarterly share dividend from $0.25 to $0.29 per share beginning with our march 2015 payment. in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the current share repurchase program. the new share repurchase program began in april of 2014. during the year ended december 31, 2014, we repurchased 23.0 million shares for $ 1.4 billion , of which 9.8 million shares for $583.4 million were under the 2014 program. we expect our available cash flow, committed credit lines and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to fund the increased dividend and share repurchases. on august 18, 2014, we announced an agreement to acquire the assets of cameron international corporation's centrifugal compression division for $850 million. the acquisition was completed on january 1, 2015, funded through a combination of cash from operations and debt. 30 table of contents liquidity the following table contains several key measures to gauge our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended december 31: in millions 2014 2013 2012 cash and cash equivalents $ 1,705.2 $ 1,937.2 $ 708.4 short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt 482.7 367.7 962.9 long-term debt 3,741.7 3,153.5 2,266.5 total debt 4,224.4 3,521.2 3,229.4 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 5,987.4 7,068.9 7,147.8 total equity 6,045.4 7,131.3 7,229.3 debt-to-total capital ratio 41.1 % 33.1 % 30.9 % short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt at december 31 consisted of the following: in millions 2014 2013 debentures with put feature $ 343.0 $ 343.0 other current maturities of long-term debt 23.6 8.0 other short-term borrowings 116.1 16.7 total $ 482.7 $ 367.7 commercial paper program the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, under the commercial paper program is $ 2 billion as of december 31, 2014 . under the commercial paper program, the company may issue notes from time to time through ingersoll-rand global holding company limited (ir-global) or ingersoll-rand luxembourg finance s.a. (ir-lux), and the proceeds of the financing will be used for general corporate purposes. the company had $ 100.0 million of commercial paper outstanding at december 31, 2014 . no commercial paper was outstanding at december 31, 2013 . see notes 7 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements for related guarantee information for our commercial paper program. debentures with put feature at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , we had outstanding $343.0 million and $ 343.0 million , respectively, of fixed rate debentures which only require early repayment at the option of the holder. these debentures contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date, subject to a notice requirement. if exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder's option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. if these options are not exercised, the final maturity dates would range between 2027 and 2028 . holders of these debentures had the option to exercise the put feature on $ 37.2 million of the outstanding debentures in february 2014, subject to the notice requirement. no exercises were made. holders of the remaining $ 305.8 million in outstanding debentures had the option to exercise the put feature, subject to the notice requirement, in november 2014. no material exercises were made. senior notes due 2020, 2024, and 2044 in october 2014, we issued $ 1.1 billion principal amount of senior notes in three tranches through a newly-created wholly-owned subsidiary, ingersoll-rand luxembourg finance s.a. (ir-lux). the tranches consist of $ 300 million of 2.625% senior notes due in 2020, $ 500 million of 3.55% senior notes due 2024, and $ 300 million of 4.65% senior notes due in 2044. the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ir-ireland and certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. the proceeds from the notes were primarily used to (i) fund the october 2014 redemption of the $ 200 million of 5.50% notes due 2015 and $ 300 million 4.75% senior notes due 2015, and (ii) fund the previously announced acquisition of cameron international corporation's centrifugal compression division on january 1, 2015. related to the redemption, the company recognized $ 10.2 million of premium expense in interest expense. for additional information regarding the terms of the notes and the related guarantees, see notes 7 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 31 table of contents senior notes due 2019, 2023, and 2043 in june 2013, we issued $1.55 billion principal amount of senior notes in three tranches through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act. the tranches consist of $350 million of 2.875% senior notes due in 2019, $700 million of 4.250% senior notes due in 2023, and $500 million of 5.750% senior notes due in 2043. later in 2013, the notes were modified to include ir-jersey as a co-obligor. the notes are also fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ir-ireland and certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. the proceeds from these notes were primarily used to fund the july 2013 redemption of $600 million of 6.000% senior notes due 2013 and $655 million of 9.500% senior notes due 2014 and to fund expenses related to the spin-off of the commercial and residential security businesses. related to this redemption, the company recorded $ 45.6 million of premium expense in interest expense. for additional information regarding the terms of the notes and the related guarantees, see notes 7 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. exchangeable senior notes due 2012 in april 2009, we issued $ 345 million of 4.5% exchangeable senior notes (the notes) through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. we settled all remaining outstanding notes during 2012. as a result, we paid $ 357.0 million in cash and issued 10.8 million ordinary shares to settle the principal, interest and equity portion of the notes. other credit facilities on march 20, 2014, the company entered into an unsecured 5-year, $ 1.0 billion revolving credit facility through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ir-global. the credit facility matures in march 2019. in connection with the entry into this credit facility, the company's existing 4-year, $ 1.0 billion revolving credit facility, due to expire in may 2015, was terminated. the company also has a 5-year, $ 1.0 billion revolving credit facility ir-global maturing in march 2017. during the fourth quarter of 2014, both credit agreements were amended to include ir-lux as an additional borrower. the total committed revolving credit facilities of $ 2.0 billion are unused and provide support for the company's commercial paper program, as well as other general corporate purposes. for additional information regarding guarantees of these revolving credit facilities by certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, see notes 7 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. the company also has various non-u.s. lines of credit that provide an aggregate borrowing capacity of $ 847.4 million , of which $ 610.2 million was unused at december 31, 2014 . these lines provide support for bank guarantees, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes. pension plans our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. we seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contribution and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. we use a dynamic approach to asset allocation whereby a plan's allocation to fixed income assets increases as the plan's funded status improves. we monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. none of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to the volatility in the markets. for further details on pension plan activity, see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. cash flows the following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended december 31, respectively. for additional details, please see the consolidated statements of cash flows in the consolidated financial statements. in millions 2014 2013 2012 operating cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations $ 991.7 $ 798.8 $ 882.5 investing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (197.0 ) (213.2 ) (128.2 ) financing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (859.5 ) 354.1 (1,295.7 ) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $ 991.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared with $ 798.8 million in 2013 . operating cash flows for 2014 reflect improved earnings from continuing operations partially offset by rising working capital in 2014. 32 table of contents net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $ 798.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared with $ 882.5 million in 2012 . operating cash flows for 2013 reflect consistent earnings from continuing operations after taking into account spin-related tax charges with no cash impact in 2013 and favorable changes in working capital. investing activities net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $ 197.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared with $ 213.2 million in 2013 . the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to $30.3 million cash dividend received from equity investments during the year ended december 31, 2014. net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $ 213.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared with $ 128.2 million in 2012 . the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to increased capital expenditures and decreased net proceeds from business dispositions and equity investments in 2013 compared to 2012. financing activities net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations during the year ended december 31, 2014 was $ 859.5 million , compared with net cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations of $ 354.1 million in 2013 . the change in financing activities is primarily related to a transfer of $1,274.2 million from allegion in connection with the spin-off in 2013. net cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations during the year ended december 31, 2013 was $ 354.1 million , compared with net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations of $ 1,295.7 million during 2012 . the change in financing activities is primarily related to net proceeds from refinancing of our long term debt in 2013 and a transfer of $1,274.2 million from allegion in connection with the spin-off, partially offset by increased repurchases of ordinary shares in 2013. capital resources based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchase programs, upcoming debt maturities, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future. capital expenditures were $ 233.5 million , $ 242.2 million and $ 243.1 million for 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs and provide environmental enhancements and advanced technologies for existing facilities. the capital expenditure program for 2015 is estimated to be approximately $320 million, including amounts approved in prior periods. many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges. for financial market risk impacting the company, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper program. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2014 , our credit ratings were as follows: short-term long-term moody's p-2 baa2 standard and poor's a-2 bbb the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2014 , our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. 33 table of contents contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment periods, in millions: less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total short-term debt $ 116.1 $ $ $ $ 116.1 long-term debt 366.6 * 15.5 1,115.3 2,619.7 $ 4,117.1 interest payments on long-term debt 209.2 414.3 331.6 1,463.8 2,418.9 purchase obligations 795.1 36.2 831.3 operating leases 114.8 161.4 88.2 59.4 423.8 total contractual cash obligations $ 1,601.6 $ 627.4 $ 1,535.1 $ 4,142.9 $ 7,907.0 * includes $343.0 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. pensions at december 31, 2014 , we had net obligations of $ 701.0 million , which consist of noncurrent pension assets of $ 11.5 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $ 712.5 million . it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $ 59.9 million to our plans worldwide in 2015 . the timing and amounts of future contributions are dependent upon the funding status of the plan, which is expected to vary as a result of changes in interest rates, returns on underlying assets, and other factors. therefore, pension contributions have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2014 , we had postretirement benefit obligations of $ 700.7 million . we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $ 59.5 million in 2015 . because benefit payments are not required to be funded in advance, and the timing and amounts of future payments for are dependent on the cost of benefits for retirees covered by the plan, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. income taxes at december 31, 2014 , we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $ 343.8 million and $ 69.7 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding matters relating to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits and internal revenue service (irs) tax disputes. contingent liabilities we are involved in various litigations, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. see note 7 and note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on matters affecting our liquidity. critical accounting policies management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states (gaap). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from estimates. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. 34 table of contents the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. allowance for doubtful accounts we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable which represents our best estimate of probable loss inherent in our accounts receivable portfolio. this estimate is based upon our two step policy that results in the total recorded allowance for doubtful accounts. the first step is to record a portfolio reserve based on the aging of the outstanding accounts receivable portfolio and the company's historical experience with our end markets, customer base and products. the second step is to create a specific reserve for significant accounts as to which the customer's ability to satisfy their financial obligation to the company is in doubt due to circumstances such as bankruptcy, deteriorating operating results or financial position. in these circumstances, management uses its judgment to record an allowance based on the best estimate of probable loss, factoring in such considerations as the market value of collateral, if applicable. actual results could differ from those estimates. these estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically, and the effects of changes, if any, are reflected in the statement of operations in the period that they are determined. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level and begins with a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test included in u.s. gaap. for those reporting units where it is required, the first step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a second step is performed, wherein the reporting unit's carrying value of goodwill is compared to the implied fair value of goodwill. to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value, impairment exists and must be recognized. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value in step one is determined using three valuation techniques: a discounted cash flow model (an income approach), a market-adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (a market approach), and a similar transactions method (also a market approach). the discounted cash flow approach relies on the company's estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. the earnings and revenue multiple approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. the similar transactions method considers prices paid in transactions that have recently occurred in our industry or in related industries. these methods are weighted 50%, 40% and 10%, respectively. in step 2, the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, was the price paid to acquire that reporting unit. recoverability of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is first assessed using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. this assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset. for those indefinite-lived assets where it is required, a fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. the determination of the estimated fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. we developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. 2014 impairment test for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2014, we calculated the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair 35 table of contents value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.5% to 15.0%, near term growth rates ranging from 3.0% to 19.6% and terminal growth rates ranging from 3.0% to 3.5%. under the market approach, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 7.0 to 11.5 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 50%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates of 12.5%, terminal growth rate of 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 3.0% to 4.5%. for all tradenames, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 36%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. 2013 impairment test for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2013, we concluded it was necessary to calculate the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 15.5% , near term growth rates ranging from (0.2)% to 8.7% and terminal growth rates ranging from 3.0% to 4.0% . under the market approach, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 7.2 to 9.8 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) and 0.9 to 2.4 of projected revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. in our 2012 form 10-k, we disclosed a security technologies reporting unit whose excess estimated fair value over carrying value was less than 15%. as a result of the spin-off, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013, this reporting unit is now presented within discontinued operations. please see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of goodwill impairment charges related to discontinued operations. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.5% to 12.0%, terminal growth rate of 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 3.0% to 4.5%. for all tradenames, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. 2012 impairment test for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2012, we concluded it was necessary to calculate the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. 36 table of contents goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 11.0% to 15.5% , near term growth rates ranging from (3.5)% to 14.5% and terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 4.0% . under the market approach, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 6.6 to 9.2 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) and 0.8 to 1.8 of projected revenues based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except one, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 15% . the reporting unit with a percentage of carrying value less than 15%, reported within the climate segment, exceeded its carrying value by 14.4% . this reporting unit had goodwill of approximately $ 599 million at december 31, 2012. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 12.0% to 12.5%, terminal growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 3.0% to 4.0%. the fair values of our trane and american standard tradenames exceeded their respective carrying amounts by less than 15%. the two tradenames exceeded their carrying value by 10.5% and 13.0%, respectively. the carrying values of these tradenames are approximately $2,497 million and $105 million, respectively, at december 31, 2012. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. we believe that our use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. loss contingencies liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business, including litigation and administrative proceedings, environmental and asbestos matters and product liability, product warranty, worker's compensation and other claims. we have recorded reserves in the financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience data depending on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances with consultation of legal counsel, internal and external consultants and engineers. subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, we believe our estimated reserves are reasonable and do not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows for any year. asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. we record a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. asbestos related defense costs are excluded from the asbestos claims liability and are recorded separately as services are incurred. although we were neither a manufacturer nor producer of asbestos, some of our formerly manufactured components from third party suppliers utilized asbestos-related components. as a result, we record certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax, as they relate to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with trane u.s. inc.'s asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries which are recorded within continuing operations. refer to note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further details of asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized and earned when all of the following criteria are satisfied: (a) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; (b) the price is fixed or determinable; (c) collectability is reasonably assured; and (d) delivery has occurred or service has been rendered. delivery generally occurs when the title and the risks and rewards of ownership have substantially transferred to the customer. both the persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement and fixed or determinable price criteria are deemed to be satisfied upon receipt of an executed and legally binding sales agreement or contract that clearly defines the terms and conditions of the transaction including the respective obligations of the parties. if the defined terms and conditions allow variability in all or a component of the price, revenue is not recognized until such time that the price becomes fixed or determinable. at the point of sale, the company validates that existence of an enforceable claim that requires payment within a reasonable amount of time and assesses the collectability of that claim. if collectability 37 table of contents is not deemed to be reasonably assured, then revenue recognition is deferred until such time that collectability becomes probable or cash is received. delivery is not considered to have occurred until the customer has taken title and assumed the risks and rewards of ownership. service and installation revenue are recognized when earned. in some instances, customer acceptance provisions are included in sales arrangements to give the buyer the ability to ensure the delivered product or service meets the criteria established in the order. in these instances, revenue recognition is deferred until the acceptance terms specified in the arrangement are fulfilled through customer acceptance or a demonstration that established criteria have been satisfied. if uncertainty exists about customer acceptance, revenue is not recognized until acceptance has occurred. we offer various sales incentive programs to our customers, dealers, and distributors. sales incentive programs do not preclude revenue recognition, but do require an accrual for the company's best estimate of expected activity. examples of the sales incentives that are accrued for as a contra receivable and sales deduction at the point of sale include, but are not limited to, discounts (i.e. net 30 type), coupons, and rebates where the customer does not have to provide any additional requirements to receive the discount. sales returns and customer disputes involving a question of quantity or price are also accounted for as a reduction in revenue and a contra receivable. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, the company had a customer claim accrual (contra receivable) of $4.7 million and $1.7 million , respectively. all other incentives or incentive programs where the customer is required to reach a certain sales level, remain a customer for a certain period of time, provide a rebate form or is subject to additional requirements are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and establishment of a liability. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, the company had a sales incentive accrual of $73.4 million and $80.1 million , respectively. each of these accruals represents the best estimate the company expects to pay related to previously sold units. these estimates are reviewed regularly for accuracy. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between our estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. the company enters into maintenance and extended warranty contracts with customers. revenue related to these services is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, unless sufficient historical evidence indicates that the cost of providing these services is incurred on an other than straight-line basis. in these circumstances, revenue is recognized over the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing the service. the company, primarily through its climate segment, provides equipment (e.g. hvac, controls), integrated solutions, and installation designed to customer specifications through construction-type contracts. the term of these types of contracts is typically less than one year, but can be as long as three years. revenues related to these contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with gaap. this measure of progress toward completion, utilized to recognize sales and profits, is based on the proportion of actual cost incurred to date as compared to the total estimate of contract costs at completion. the timing of revenue recognition often differs from the invoicing schedule to the customer, with revenue recognition in advance of customer invoicing recorded to unbilled accounts receivable and invoicing in advance of revenue recognition recorded to deferred revenue. at december 31, 2014 , all recorded receivables (billed and unbilled) are due within one year. the company re-evaluates its contract estimates periodically and reflects changes in estimates in the current period using the cumulative catch-up method. these periodic reviews have not historically resulted in significant adjustments. if estimated contract costs are in excess of contract revenues, then the excess costs are accrued. we enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple elements, such as equipment, installation and service revenue. for multiple element arrangements, each element is evaluated to determine the separate units of accounting. the total arrangement consideration is then allocated to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling price at the inception of the arrangement. the relative selling price is determined using vendor specific objective evidence (vsoe) of selling price, if it exists; otherwise, third-party evidence (tpe) of selling price is used. if neither vsoe nor tpe of selling price exists for a deliverable, a best estimate of the selling price is developed for that deliverable. the company primarily utilizes vsoe to determine its relative selling price. the company recognizes revenue for delivered elements when the delivered item has stand-alone value to the customer, the basic revenue recognition criteria have been met, and only customary refund or return rights related to the delivered elements exist. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-u.s. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. we regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, 38 table of contents and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. we will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. employee benefit plans we provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, employee mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with gaap. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. we review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. a discount rate reflects a rate at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. discount rates for all plans are established using hypothetical yield curves based on the yields of corporate bonds rated aa quality. spot rates are developed from the yield curve and used to discount future benefit payments. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan's investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of each measurement date. we believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the expected 2015 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $9.5 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by approximately $7.3 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would increase expected 2015 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.6 million and a 1.0% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate would increase the service and interest cost by approximately $1.1 million. recent accounting pronouncements recently adopted accounting pronouncements: in february 2013, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued accounting standards update (asu) 2013-04, obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting date. asu 2013-04 provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, and disclosure of obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements where the total obligation is fixed at the reporting date, and for which no specific guidance currently exists. this new guidance became effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after december 15, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. the revised requirements of asu 2013-04 did not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements. in march 2013, the fasb issued asu 2013-05, parent's accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of certain subsidiaries or groups of assets within a foreign entity or of an investment in a foreign entity. asu 2013-05 clarifies the application of gaap to the release of cumulative translation adjustments related to changes of ownership in or within foreign entities, including step acquisitions. this new guidance became effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after december 15, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. the company will apply the new guidance, as applicable, to future derecognitions of certain subsidiaries or groups of assets within a foreign entity or of an investment in foreign entities. in july 2013, the fasb issued asu 2013-11, presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. asu 2013-11 clarifies guidance and eliminates diversity in practice on the presentation of unrecognized tax benefits when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists at the reporting date. this new guidance became effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after december 15, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. the company has applied the requirements of asu 2013-11 prospectively in preparing the december 31, 2014 consolidated balance sheet, which resulted in a decrease to current and noncurrent deferred tax assets of $21.9 million and $10.0 million, respectively, an increase to noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $114.8 million and a decrease to noncurrent reserves for uncertain tax positions of $146.7 million. had the company applied the requirements of 39 table of contents asu 2013-11 retrospectively to the december 31, 2013 consolidated balance sheet, the impact would have been a decrease to current and noncurrent deferred tax assets of $22.6 million and $20.7 million, respectively, an increase to noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $128.9 million and a decrease to noncurrent reserves for uncertain tax positions of $172.2 million. recently issued accounting pronouncements in april 2014, the fasb issued asu 2014-08, presentation of financial statements and property, plant, and equipment - reporting discontinued operations and disclosures of disposals of components of an entity. asu 2014-08 provides new guidance related to the definition of a discontinued operation and requires new disclosures of both discontinued operations and certain other disposals that do not meet the definition of a discontinued operation. this new guidance is effective for annual periods beginning on or after december 15, 2014 and interim periods within those years. beginning in 2015, the company will apply the new guidance, as applicable, to future disposals of components or classifications as held for sale. in may 2014, the fasb issued asu 2014-09, revenue from contracts with customers. asu 2014-09 provides new guidance related to how an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. in addition, asu 2014-08 specifies new accounting for costs associated with obtaining or fulfilling contracts with customers and expands the required disclosures related to revenue and cash flows from contracts with customers. this new guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after december 15, 2016, and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption, with early application not permitted. the company is currently determining its implementation approach and assessing the impact on the consolidated financial statements. in june 2014, the fasb issued asu 2014-12 "accounting for share-based payments when the terms of an award provide that a performance target could be achieved after the requisite service period." asu 2014-12 requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. as such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. this update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the period(s) for which the requisite service has already been rendered. the new guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after december 15, 2015, including interim periods within that reporting period. early application is permitted. beginning in 2015, the company will apply the new guidance to future share-based payment arrangements, as applicable. in august 2014, the fasb issued asu 2014-15, presentation of financial statements - going concern - disclosures of uncertainties about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern. asu 2014-15 provides new guidance related to management's responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern by incorporating and expanding upon certain principles that are currently in u.s. auditing standards and to provide related footnote disclosures. this new guidance is effective for the annual period ending after december 15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. the requirements of asu 2014-15 are not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. our consolidated financial results reported in u.s. dollars are exposed to changes in the exchange rates used to translate certain non-u.s. operations into u.s. dollars. approximately 63% of net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014 were denominated in u.s. dollars and 7% were denominated in chinese yuan, which currently has a fixed rate of exchange with the u.s. dollar. the largest concentration of non-u.s. denominated sales is in the euro functional currency, which was approximately 10% of net revenues for year ended december 31, 2014. if the average exchange rate used to translate revenue from euro-denominated operations into u.s. dollars changed unfavorably by $0.01 compared to the actual exchange rates used, net earnings would have been approximately $2 million lower for the year ended december 31, 2014 (equivalent to a reduction in earnings per share of $0.01). we are also exposed to gains or losses on purchases, sales and other transactions at the operating unit level that are denominated in foreign currencies. we use derivative instruments to hedge those exposures that cannot be naturally offset to an insignificant amount. the instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or 40 table of contents speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2014 , a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $ 44.2 million , as compared with $ 107.8 million at december 31, 2013 . these amounts, when realized, would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying transactions. effective january 1, 2010, venezuela was determined to be a highly inflationary economy and we changed the functional currency of our operations in venezuela to the u.s. dollar. on february 8, 2013,the government of venezuela announced a devaluation of the bolivar, from the pre-existing official exchange rate obtained through the national center of foreign trade (cencoex, formerly cadivi through april 2014) of 4.29 bolivars to the u.s. dollar to 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. we have one subsidiary with operations in venezuela. due to the designation of venezuela as highly inflationary the u.s. dollar was determined to be the functional currency for this subsidiary. as a result of the devaluation, we realized a foreign currency translation loss of approximately $3.8 million in the year ended december 31, 2013. in january 2014, the venezuelan government significantly expanded the use of the supplementary foreign currency administration system (sicad) i exchange market and created a third exchange market called sicad ii. these markets have exchange rates significantly less favorable than the cencoex rate. the venezuelan government also indicated that the cencoex rate will be reserved for purchases of essential goods and services. in february 2015, the venezuelan government announced a new exchange market called the marginal currency system (simadi), which will replace the sicad ii exchange and allow for trading based on supply and demand. an exchange rate for the simadi market has not been published. the financial position and results of our venezuelan subsidiary as of december 31, 2014, are reflected in usd utilizing the cencoex rate and not the december 31, 2014 sicad i (12.0 bolivars to $1.00), sicad ii (49.98 bolivars to $1.00) or simadi rates due to our belief that our imports will continue to qualify for the cencoex rate and our intent to continue to pursue this rate for future exchanges. however, we will continue to monitor the evolving venezuela exchange market, including the establishment of the new simadi exchange market. as of december 31, 2014, we had net monetary assets of approximately 273 million bolivars. for 2014, annual net revenues of our venezuela subsidiary were approximately 300 million bolivars. further devaluation of the bolivar, or our inability to convert our net monetary assets denominated in bolivars into us dollars at certain of the exchange rates discussed above, could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2014 . interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates would not have a material effect on our results of operations. 41 table of contentsrisk factors 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 40 additional geographic data is provided in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. backlog our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at december 31 , was as follows: in millions 2015 2014 climate $ 1,517.3 $ 1,499.3 industrial 574.0 489.6 total $ 2,091.3 $ 1,988.9 these backlog figures are based on orders received. while the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision and deferral, and to a lesser extent cancellation or termination. we expect to ship substantially all the december 31, 2015 backlog during 2016 . environmental matters we continue to be dedicated to an environmental program to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process and to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the environmental protection agency and similar state authorities. we have also been identified as a potentially responsible party (prp) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal superfund and state remediation sites. for all such sites, there are other prps and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal. in estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other prps who may be jointly and severally liable. the ability of other prps to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties' financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future. for a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. 6 table of contents asbestos related matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. see also the discussion under part i, item 3, "legal proceedings," and part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "contingent liabilities," as well as further detail in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. employees as of december 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 45,000 people throughout the world. available information we file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934. this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the board of directors of the company has also adopted and posted in the investor relations section of the company's website our corporate governance guidelines and charters for each of the board's standing committees. the contents of the company's website are not incorporated by reference in this report. 7 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following is a list of executive officers of the company as of february 12, 2016 . name and age date of service as an executive officer principal occupation and other information for past five years michael w. lamach (52) 2/16/2004 chairman of the board (since june 2010) and chief executive officer (since february 2010); president and chief operating officer (2009-2010); senior vice president and president, trane commercial systems (2008-2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2004-2008) susan k. carter (57) 10/2/2013 senior vice president and chief financial officer (since october 2013); executive vice president and chief financial officer, kbr inc. (a global engineering, construction and services business), (2009-2013); executive vice president and chief financial officer, lennox international inc. (a heating, air conditioning and refrigeration company), (2004 to 2009) marcia j. avedon (54) 2/7/2007 senior vice president, human resources, communications and corporate affairs (since june 2013); senior vice president, human resources and communications (2007 - 2013) paul a. camuti (54) 8/1/2011 senior vice president, innovation and chief technology officer (since august 2011); president, smart grid applications, siemens energy, inc. (an energy technology subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2010 -2011); president, research division, siemens corporation (a diversified global technology company) (2009 - 2010); president and chief executive officer, siemens corporate research, inc. (the research subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2005 - 2009) maria c. green (63) 11/2/2015 senior vice president and general counsel (since november 2015); senior vice president, general counsel and secretary, illinois tool works inc. (a global manufacturer of a diversified range of industrial products and equipment), (2012-2015); vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary, illinois tool works inc. (2011-2012) gary s. michel (53) 8/1/2011 senior vice president and president, residential hvac (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, residential solutions (2011-2013); president and chief executive officer, club car (2007 - 2011) didier teirlinck (59) 6/4/2008 executive vice president, climate segment (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, climate solutions (2009-2013); president, climate control technologies (2008-2009); president, climate control europe (2005-2008) keith a. sultana (46) 10/12/2015 senior vice president, global operations and integrated supply chain (since october 2015); vice president, global procurement (january 2015 to october 2015); vice president, global integrated supply chain (gisc) for climate solutions (2010 to 2014) robert g. zafari (57) 7/1/2010 executive vice president, industrial segment (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, industrial technologies (2010-2013); president, tcs and climate solutions emeia (2009-2010); president, security technologies esa (2007-2008) christopher j. kuehn (43) 6/1/2015 vice president and controller (since june 2015); vice president and corporate controller , whirlpool corporation (a global manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances), (2012-2015); vice president, global cfo thermal equipment and services segment, spx corporation (a global supplier of infrastructure equipment platforms in heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac), (2008-2012) no family relationship exists between any of the above-listed executive officers of the company. all officers are elected to hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. 8 table of contents item 1a . risk factors our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks set forth below are those we consider most significant. we face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material but could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations. you should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. in that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. our global operations subject us to economic risks. our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the u.s. and internationally, including europe, china, brazil, venezuela, africa, india, argentina, mexico and russia. these activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: changes in local laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints; limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries; imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas; difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and economic downturns, slowing economic growth and social and political instability. these risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we face significant competition in the markets that we serve and our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services. the markets that we serve are highly competitive. we compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. there has been consolidation and new entrants within our industries and there may be future consolidation and new entrants which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the competitive landscape in which we operate. due to our global footprint we are competing worldwide with large companies and with smaller, local operators who may have customer, regulatory or economic advantages in the geographies in which they are located. in addition, we must develop and commercialize new products and services in a rapidly changing technological and business environment in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. the development and commercialization of new products and services require a significant investment of resources and an anticipation of the impact of new technologies and the ability to compete with others who may have superior resources. we cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. we also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by our current and future markets. failure to develop new products and services that are accepted by these markets could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the capital and credit markets are important to our business. instability in u.s. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. in particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategies. our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. 9 table of contents currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. see part ii item 7a, "quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk." we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. many of our non-u.s. operations have a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar, and their results are translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes. therefore, our reported results will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the respective foreign currency. we use derivative instruments to hedge those material exposures that cannot be naturally offset. the instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business or the business operations of previously-owned entities. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, product liability and asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against the total aggregate amount of losses sustained as a result of such proceedings and contingencies. as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other events could affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. we may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. we rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are supported by third party vendors, to manage and operate our business. we are also investing in new information technology systems that are designed to continue improving our operations. if these systems cease to function properly, if these systems experience security breaches or disruptions or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. security breaches or disruptions of our technology systems, infrastructure or products could negatively impact our business and financial results. our information technology systems and infrastructure and technology embedded in certain of our control products may be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized security intrusions. it is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period. in addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly result in security breaches or disruptions. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly changing and evolving. despite having instituted security policies and business continuity plans, and implementing and regularly reviewing and updating processes and procedures 10 table of contents to protect against unauthorized access, the ever-evolving threats mean we must continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. our systems, networks and certain of our control products may be vulnerable to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events that could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information or the personally identifiable data relating to our customers, employees and business partners and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation. such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to a cybersecurity attack or disruptions resulting from such attacks. commodity shortages and price increases and higher energy prices could adversely affect our financial results. we rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. a disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. volatility in the prices of these commodities or the impact of inflationary increases could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. conversely, in the event there is deflation, we may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices. there can be no assurance that we would be able to reduce its costs (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. we do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against this volatility. while we use fixed price contracts to mitigate this exposure, we expect any future hedging activity to seek to minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices which would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases. additionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations in the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products, and supplying services, to customers around the world. consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. at december 31, 2015 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $ 5.7 billion and $ 2.7 billion , respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and sustained market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods recognized. changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect certain segments of our business and impact overall results of operations. demand for certain segments of our products and services is influenced by weather conditions. for instance, trane's sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of our business and impact overall results of operations. 11 table of contents global climate change and related regulations could negatively affect our business. refrigerants are essential to many of our products and there is a growing awareness and concern regarding global warming potential of such materials. as such, national, regional and international regulations and policies are being considered to curtail their use. as we begin to see regulations impeding the use of the current class of widely used refrigerants we are planning for, and managing transitions to, sustainable solutions. we have committed to increase energy efficiency and reduce our climate impact with operational and product-related climate targets, including among other initiatives: (i) 50 percent reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions of our products for customers by 2020 and lower global warming potential alternatives across our portfolio by 2030; (ii) $500 million investment in product-related research and development from 2015-2020 to fund the long-term reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; and (iii) 35 percent reduction in the greenhouse gas footprint of our office buildings, manufacturing facilities and fleet by 2020. while we are committed to pursuing these sustainable solutions, there can be no assurance that our commitments will be successful, that our products will be accepted by the market or that economic returns will match the investment that we are making in new product development. concerns regarding global climate change may result in more international, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate global warming and these regulations could mandate even more restrictive standards than the voluntary commitments that we have made or require such changes on a more accelerated timeframe. there continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. such regulatory uncertainty extends to future incentives for energy efficient buildings and vehicles and costs of compliance, which may impact the demand for our products, obsolescence of our products and our results of operations. in addition, to the extent climate change influences weather patterns, such changes could also disrupt our operations by causing business interruptions or by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. these factors may impact our decisions to construct new facilities or maintain existing facilities in areas most prone to physical climate risks. weakness in the commercial and residential construction markets may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. our commercial and residential hvac businesses, which collectively represent 61% of our net revenues, provide products and services to a wide range of markets, including significant sales to the commercial and residential construction markets. weakness in either or both of these construction markets may negatively impact the demand for our products and services. decrease in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. 12 table of contents our business strategy includes acquiring companies, entering into joint ventures and making investments that complement our existing businesses. we may not identify acquisition or joint venture candidates at the same rate as the past. acquisitions, joint ventures and investments that we identify could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses and product lines, joint ventures and investments with the potential to strengthen our industry position, enhance our existing set of product and services offerings or grow revenues, earnings and cash flow. there can be no assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable candidates in the future, that we will consummate these transactions at rates similar to the past or that completed transactions will be successful. acquisitions, joint ventures and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. such transactions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of either acquired businesses or our business; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses; dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities; and in the case of joint ventures and other investments, interests that diverge from those of our partners without the ability to direct the management and operations of the joint venture or investment in the manner we believe most appropriate. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions, joint ventures or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as such transactions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. our operations are subject to regulatory risks. our u.s. and non-u.s. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including among others, laws related to the environment and health and safety. we have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. any violations of applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions. changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. the u.s. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to u.s. companies that reincorporate outside of the u.s. or have reincorporated outside of the u.s or may take other actions negatively impacting such companies. if we are unable to effectively respond to changes to applicable laws and regulations, interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. risks relating to our past spin-off transaction in december 2013, we completed the spin-off of our former commercial and residential security businesses to our shareholders (the spin-off) pursuant to which each shareholder as of the record date for the spin-off received one ordinary share of allegion, plc (allegion) for every three ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shares. allegion is now an independent public company. this spin-off exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the spin-off and subsequent to the spin-off will be realized. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders as of the time of the distribution that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or allegion could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we received a ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of allegion plc's ordinary shares, together with certain related transactions, will qualify for tax-free treatment under 13 table of contents sections 355 and 368(a) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), with the result that we and our shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares (the irs ruling ). the irs ruling also provides that specified internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition, we received opinions from the law firm of simpson thacher &amp; bartlett llp substantially to the effect that specified requirements, including certain requirements that the irs will not rule on, necessary to obtain tax-free treatment have been satisfied, such that the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes and certain other matters relating to the distribution, including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution, will receive tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the irs ruling and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the irs ruling and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in shares or asset ownership after the distribution. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser's best legal judgment and is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. in addition, the opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution, and/or internal transactions, ultimately is determined to be taxable, we or allegion could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities, which could cause a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. furthermore, if, notwithstanding receipt of the irs ruling and opinions, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each shareholder subject to u.s. federal income tax who received shares of allegion in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the allegion shares received. that distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of our then-current and accumulated earnings and profits. any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the applicable shareholder's tax basis in our ordinary shares with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. under the terms of the tax matters agreement between us and allegion executed in connection with the spin-off, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us or allegion, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or allegion as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us or allegion, then allegion would be responsible for any taxes imposed on us or allegion as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. if allegion were to default in its obligation to us to pay such taxes, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of tax liabilities. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. if the distribution is determined to be taxable for irish tax purposes, significant irish tax liabilities may arise. we received an opinion of the irish revenue regarding the irish tax consequences of the distribution to the effect that certain reliefs and exemptions for corporate reorganizations apply. in addition to obtaining the opinion from irish revenue, we also received opinions from the law firm of arthur cox confirming the applicability of the relevant exemptions and reliefs to the distribution as well as received opinions from other external advisers that certain internal transactions will not trigger irish tax costs as well. these opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the opinions, irish revenue could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions do not qualify for the relevant exemptions or reliefs if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser's best legal judgment and is not binding on irish revenue or the courts and irish revenue or the courts may not agree with the legal opinion. in addition, the legal opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution ultimately is determined not to fall within certain exemptions or reliefs, the distribution could result in certain of our shareholders having an irish tax liability as a result of the distribution, or we or allegion could incur irish tax liabilities. to the extent we are responsible for any such liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. risks relating to our past reorganizations we effected a corporate reorganization in december 2001 to become a bermuda company (the bermuda reorganization) and a subsequent corporate reorganization in july 2009 to become an irish public limited company. these reorganizations exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations will be realized. 14 table of contents changes in tax or other laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under u.s. or non-u.s. laws or adverse determinations by taxing or other governmental authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations could be impacted by changes in tax or other laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. or non-u.s. tax or other governmental authorities. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted or implemented could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for instance, certain u.s. legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident for u.s. tax purposes, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations. there are other u.s. legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. in addition, other u.s. legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our u.s. subsidiaries to our non-u.s. affiliates, which could increase our tax liability. moreover, the organization for economic co-operation and development has released proposals to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting, such that tax laws in countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely impact us. we cannot predict the outcome of any of these potential changes in any jurisdiction. while we monitor proposals and other developments that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals or regulatory changes are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax or other laws is challenged and determined to be incorrect. in particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the ireland reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation. while our u.s. operations are subject to u.s. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-u.s. operations are generally not subject to u.s. tax other than withholding taxes. the irs or a court, however, may not concur with our conclusions including our determination that we, and a significant number of our foreign subsidiaries, are not controlled foreign corporations (cfc) within the meaning of the u.s. tax laws. a contrary determination, which could also arise through significant future acquisitions of our stock by u.s. persons, could also potentially cause u.s. holders (direct, indirect or constructive owners) of 10% or more of our stock (or the voting stock of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) to include in their gross income their pro rata share of certain of our and our non-u.s. subsidiary income for the period during which we (and our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc. in addition, gain (or a portion of such gain) realized on cfc shares sold by such shareholders may be treated as ordinary income depending on certain facts. treatment of us or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries as a cfc could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our reorganizations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on u.s. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. in addition, irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. also, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. under irish law, we must have authority from our shareholders to issue any shares, including shares that are part of the company's authorized but unissued share capital. in addition, unless otherwise authorized by its shareholders, when an irish company issues shares for cash to new shareholders, it is required first to offer those 15 table of contents shares on the same or more favorable terms to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis. if we are unable to obtain these authorizations from our shareholders, or are otherwise limited by the terms of our authorizations, our ability to issue shares or otherwise raise capital could be adversely affected. dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, we are required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. in the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the united states will not be subject to irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain irish dividend withholding tax forms. however, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ir-ireland. our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ingersoll rand plc. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties as of december 31, 2015 , we owned or leased a total of approximately 14 million square feet of space worldwide. manufacturing and assembly operations are conducted in 51 plants across the world. we also maintain various warehouses, offices and repair centers throughout the world. the majority of our plant facilities are owned by us with the remainder under long-term lease arrangements. we believe that our plants have been well maintained, are generally in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. 16 table of contents the locations by segment of our principal plant facilities at december 31, 2015 were as follows: climate americas europe asia pacific and india curitiba, brazil kolin, czech republic zhong shan, china monterrey, mexico charmes, france taicang, china arecibo, puerto rico golbey, france bangkok, thailand fort smith, arkansas * galway, ireland penang, malaysia pueblo, colorado barcelona, spain lynn haven, florida essen, germany macon, georgia vidalia, georgia rushville, indiana lexington, kentucky st. paul, minnesota hastings, nebraska trenton, new jersey columbia, south carolina clarksville, tennessee tyler, texas waco, texas la crosse, wisconsin charlotte, north carolina * the fort smith, arkansas location has two plants. industrial americas europe asia pacific and india dorval, canada unicov, czech republic changzhou, china augusta, georgia sin le noble, france guilin, china campbellsville, kentucky wasquehal, france nanjing, china mocksville, north carolina oberhausen, germany wujiang, china southern pines, north carolina fogliano redipuglia, italy naroda, india west chester, pennsylvania vignate, italy sahibabad, india kent, washington logatec, slovenia buffalo, new york item 3. legal proceedings in the normal course of business, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, including commercial and contract disputes, employment matters, product liability claims, asbestos-related claims, environmental liabilities, intellectual property disputes, and tax-related matters. in our opinion, pending legal matters are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. tax related matters as previously discussed in our third quarter form 10-q for the quarterly period ended september 30, 2015, we entered into an agreement with the irs in july 2015 to resolve disputes related to withholding and income taxes for years 2002 through 2011. the irs had previously disagreed with our tax treatment of intercompany debt and distributions and asserted we owed income and withholding tax relating to the 2002-2006 period totaling $774 million, not including interest and penalties. we also provided a substantial amount of information to the irs in connection with its audit of the 2007-2011 tax periods. we expected the irs to propose similar adjustments to these periods, although it was not known how the irs would apply its position to the different 17 table of contents facts presented in these years or whether the irs would take a similar position to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years. the resolution reached in july 2015 covered intercompany debt and related issues for the entire period from 2002 through 2011 and includes all aspects of the dispute with the u.s. tax court, the appeals division and the examination division of the irs. the resolution was subsequently reported to the congressional joint committee on taxation (jct), as required, for its review. the jct concluded its review without objection in december 2015 and the settlement was finalized with the irs in december 2015. pursuant to the agreement with the irs, we agreed to pay withholding tax and interest of $412 million in respect to the 2002-2006 years. we owed no additional tax with respect to intercompany debt and related matters for the years 2007-2011. no penalties were applied to any of the tax years 2002 through 2011. the resolution resulted in a net cash outflow of approximately $ 364 million , consisting of $230 million in tax and $134 million of interest, net of a tax benefit of $48 million. for a further discussion of tax matters, see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos-related matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "contingent liabilities," and also note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. 18 table of contents item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities information regarding the principal market for our ordinary shares and related shareholder matters is as follows: our ordinary shares are traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir. as of february 1, 2016 , the approximate number of record holders of ordinary shares was 3,660 . the high and low sales price per share and the dividend declared per share for the following periods were as follows: ordinary shares 2015 high low dividend first quarter $ 69.01 $ 60.15 $ 0.29 second quarter 70.93 65.47 0.29 third quarter 69.28 49.80 0.29 fourth quarter 60.43 49.74 0.29 2014 high low dividend first quarter $ 62.88 $ 55.70 $ 0.25 second quarter 63.99 54.39 0.25 third quarter 64.50 56.36 0.25 fourth quarter 64.59 53.57 0.25 future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the irish companies act 2014. under the irish companies act 2014, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits (so far as not previously distributed or capitalized) less its accumulated, realized losses (so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of its share capital) of ingersoll-rand plc. in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of ingersoll-rand plc are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of ingersoll-rand plc's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce ingersoll-rand plc's net assets below such aggregate. information regarding equity compensation plans required to be disclosed pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the annual general meeting of shareholders. 19 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the following table provides information with respect to purchases by us of our ordinary shares during the quarter ended december 31, 2015 : period total number of shares purchased (000's) (a) (b) average price paid per share (a) (b) total number of shares purchased as part of program (000's) (a) approximate dollar value of shares still available to be purchased under the program ($000's) (a) october 1 - october 31 331.1 $ 50.93 327.3 $ 666,639 november 1 - november 30 $ 666,639 december 1 - december 31 2.9 58.01 $ 666,639 total 334.0 $ 50.99 327.3 (a) in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program, which began in april 2014. based on market conditions, share repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions at the discretion of management. the repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date. (b) we may also reacquire shares outside of the repurchase program from time to time in connection with the surrender of shares to cover taxes on vesting of share based awards. we reacquired 3,843 shares in october and 2,869 shares in december in transactions outside the repurchase programs. 20 table of contents performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our ordinary shares with the cumulative total return on (i) the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and (ii) the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index for the five years ended december 31, 2015 . the graph assumes an investment of $100 in our ordinary shares, the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index on december 31, 2010 and assumes the reinvestment of dividends. company/index 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ingersoll rand 100 66 105 170 178 158 s&amp;p 500 100 102 118 156 177 180 s&amp;p 500 industrials index 100 99 114 160 176 172 21 table of contents item 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts: at and for the years ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 net revenues $ 13,300.7 $ 12,891.4 $ 12,350.5 $ 11,988.3 $ 12,760.8 net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations 688.9 897.0 620.1 772.4 123.4 discontinued operations (24.3 ) 34.7 (1.3 ) 246.2 219.8 total assets 16,738.8 17,298.5 17,658.1 18,482.1 18,819.6 total debt 4,239.0 4,224.4 3,521.2 3,229.4 3,637.6 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 5,816.7 5,987.4 7,068.9 7,147.8 6,924.3 earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic: continuing operations $ 2.60 $ 3.32 $ 2.11 $ 2.54 $ 0.38 discontinued operations (0.09 ) 0.12 0.81 0.68 diluted: continuing operations $ 2.57 $ 3.27 $ 2.08 $ 2.49 $ 0.36 discontinued operations (0.09 ) 0.13 (0.01 ) 0.79 0.65 dividends declared per ordinary share $ 1.16 $ 1.00 $ 0.63 $ 0.69 $ 0.59 1. 2011 amounts represent the operating results of the hussmann business and branches through their respective divestiture and transaction dates of september 30, 2011 and november 30, 2011, including an after-tax loss on sale and impairment charges of $ 546 million . 2. 2011 dividends declared per ordinary share includes a dividend of $ 0.16 per ordinary share, declared in december 2011, and payable on march 30, 2012 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2012. 3. 2012 dividends declared per ordinary share includes a dividend of $0.21 per ordinary share, declared in december 2012, and payable on march 28, 2013 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2013. 22 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this annual report. overview organization we are a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. our business segments consist of climate and industrial, both with strong brands and leading positions within their respective markets. we generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as ingersoll-rand , trane , thermo king , american standard , aro , and club car . to achieve our mission of being a world leader in creating comfortable, sustainable and efficient environments, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream from parts, service, used equipment and rentals; and to continuously improve the efficiencies and capabilities of the products and services of our high-potential businesses. additional emphasis is placed on expanding market coverage in terms of geography or by taking advantage of a particular vertical market or opportunity. we also continue to focus on operational excellence strategies as a central theme to improving our earnings and cash flows. trends and economic events we are a global corporation with worldwide operations. as a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors, as well as political factors, wherever we operate or do business. our geographic and industry diversity, and the breadth of our product and services portfolios, have helped mitigate the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. given the broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the company. we monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. we regularly perform detailed evaluations of the different market segments we are serving to proactively detect trends and to adapt our strategies accordingly. in addition, we believe our order rates are indicative of future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. in those industry segments where we are a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. current economic conditions remain challenging across each of the segments in which we participate. residential and commercial new construction has seen moderate growth in the united states which is positively impacting the results of our heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) businesses. non-residential new construction continues to grow slowly in europe and asia. in addition, hvac equipment replacement and aftermarket continue to experience steady growth. however, we have seen slower worldwide industrial equipment and aftermarket activity and economic pressure in asia and latin america. as economic conditions stabilize, we expect moderate growth in worldwide construction markets and flat to slow growth in industrial markets, along with benefits from continued productivity programs. despite the current market environment, we believe we have a solid foundation of global brands and leading market shares in all of our major product lines. our growing geographic and industry diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service, parts and replacement revenue streams. in addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which we expect will drive our future growth. significant events in the year irs exam results as previously discussed in our third quarter form 10-q for the quarterly period ended september 30, 2015, we entered into an agreement with the irs in july 2015 to resolve disputes related to withholding and income taxes for years 2002 through 2011. the irs had previously disagreed with our tax treatment of intercompany debt and distributions and asserted we owed income and withholding tax relating to the 2002-2006 period totaling $774 million, not including interest and penalties. we also provided a substantial amount of information to the irs in connection with its audit of the 2007-2011 tax periods. we expected the irs to propose similar adjustments to these periods, although it was not known how the irs would apply its position to the different 23 table of contents facts presented in these years or whether the irs would take a similar position to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years. the resolution reached in july 2015 covered intercompany debt and related issues for the entire period from 2002 through 2011 and includes all aspects of the dispute with the u.s. tax court, the appeals division and the examination division of the irs. the resolution was subsequently reported to the congressional joint committee on taxation (jct), as required, for its review. the jct concluded its review without objection in december 2015 and the settlement was finalized with the irs in december 2015. pursuant to the agreement with the irs, we agreed to pay withholding tax and interest of $412 million in respect to the 2002-2006 years. we owed no additional tax with respect to intercompany debt and related matters for the years 2007-2011. no penalties were applied to any of the tax years 2002 through 2011. the resolution resulted in a net cash outflow of approximately $ 364 million , consisting of $230 million in tax and $134 million of interest, net of a tax benefit of $48 million. announcement to sell hussmann minority interest on december 21, 2015, we announced we will sell our remaining equity interest in hussmann parent, inc. ( hussmann ) as part of a transaction in which panasonic corporation will acquire 100 percent of hussmann's shares. we expect to receive net proceeds of approximately $ 425 million . the transaction is anticipated to close in the first half of 2016 subject to customary approvals and closing conditions and has no impact on the results of our operations in 2015. acquisitions on january 1, 2015, we completed the acquisition of the assets of cameron international corporation's centrifugal compression business for approximately $ 850 million . the acquired business manufactures centrifugal compression equipment and provides aftermarket parts and services for global industrial applications, air separation, gas transmission and process gas. the acquisition was financed through a combination of cash on hand and debt. the results of the engineered centrifugal compression business have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition and are reported within our industrial segment. on march 4, 2015, we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of frigoblock for approximately 100 million (approximately $113 million). the acquired business manufactures and designs transport refrigeration units for trucks and trailers, which it sells primarily in western europe. the results of the frigoblock business have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition and are reported within our climate segment. 2016 dividend increase and share repurchase program in february 2016, we announced an increase in our quarterly share dividend of 10% from $0.29 to $0.32 per share beginning with our march 2016 payment. in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program that began in april 2014. share repurchases are made from time to time at the discretion of management subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other considerations. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we repurchased and settled 4.4 million shares for $ 250.1 million . as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately $667 million remaining on the authorized plan. since january 1, 2016, we repurchased and settled 4.9 million shares for $250.0 million. we have approximately $417 million remaining on the authorized plan. venezuela currency devaluation we have one subsidiary with operations in venezuela. due to the historical designation of venezuela as a highly inflationary economy, the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for this subsidiary. from february 2013 to march 2015, we utilized the official exchange rate obtained through the national center of foreign trade (cencoex) of 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar to translate the venezuela subsidiary financial statements. in january 2014, the venezuelan government significantly expanded the use of the supplementary foreign currency administration system (sicad) i exchange market and created a third exchange market called sicad ii. in january 2015, the venezuelan government clarified the priority imports for the cencoex exchange and our products were not listed as a priority. in february 2015, the venezuelan government announced a new exchange market called the marginal currency system (simadi), which replaced the sicad ii exchange and allows for trading based on supply and demand. these markets have exchange rates significantly less favorable than the cencoex rate. in light of the developments described above and the continued deterioration in the economic conditions of venezuela in connection with our preparation of the first quarter 2015 financial statements, we utilized the simadi rate of 192.95 bolivars to u.s. dollar to translate the financial position of our venezuelan subsidiary as of march 31, 2015. as a result, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $ 42.6 million (within other income/(expense), net) during the first quarter of 2015 to remeasure the net monetary assets at march 24 table of contents 31, 2015. our remaining net assets denominated in venezuelan bolivar are nominal and continue be measured in u.s. dollars using the simadi rate through december 31, 2015 . 25 table of contents results of operations our climate segment globally delivers energy-efficient products and innovative energy services. it includes trane and american standard heating &amp; air conditioning which provide heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) systems, and commercial and residential building services, parts, support and controls; energy services and building automation through trane building advantage and nexia; and thermo king transport temperature control solutions. our industrial segment delivers products and services that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. it includes compressed air and gas systems and services, power tools, material handling systems, aro fluid management equipment, as well as club car golf, utility and rough terrain vehicles. segment operating income is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate the financial performance of the business and as the basis for performance reviews, compensation and resource allocation. for these reasons, we believe that segment operating income represents the most relevant measure of segment profit and loss. we may exclude certain charges or gains from operating income to arrive at a segment operating income that is a more meaningful measure of profit and loss upon which to base our operating decisions. we define segment operating margin as segment operating income as a percentage of net revenues. year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 dollar amounts in millions 2015 2014 period change 2015 % of revenues 2014 % of revenues net revenues $ 13,300.7 $ 12,891.4 $ 409.3 cost of goods sold (9,301.6 ) (8,982.8 ) (318.8 ) 69.9% 69.8% selling and administrative expenses (2,541.1 ) (2,503.9 ) (37.2 ) 19.1% 19.4% operating income 1,458.0 1,404.7 53.3 11.0% 10.9% interest expense (223.0 ) (225.3 ) 2.3 other income/(expense), net 12.9 30.0 (17.1 ) earnings before income taxes 1,247.9 1,209.4 38.5 provision for income taxes (540.8 ) (293.7 ) (247.1 ) earnings from continuing operations 707.1 915.7 (208.6 ) gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (24.3 ) 34.7 (59.0 ) net earnings $ 682.8 $ 950.4 $ (267.6 ) net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015 increased by 3.2% , or $409.3 million , compared with the same period of 2014. the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix 4.5 % acquisitions 2.4 % pricing 0.2 % currency translation (3.9 )% total 3.2 % the increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher volumes in our climate segment and favorable contributions from acquisitions across both business segments. these items were partially offset by unfavorable currency impacts, primarily from the euro. our revenues by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2015 2014 % change climate $ 10,224.3 $ 9,879.7 3.5% industrial 3,076.4 3,011.7 2.1% total $ 13,300.7 $ 12,891.4 26 table of contents climate net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015 increased by 3.5% or $ 344.6 million , compared with the same period of 2014 the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix 6.4 % acquisitions 0.4 % pricing 0.1 % currency translation (3.4 )% total 3.5 % the primary driver of the revenue increase related to higher volumes in each of our businesses. commercial hvac revenues increased from improvements in equipment, parts, services and solutions. in addition, residential hvac revenues increased through moderate market growth. revenues in our thermo king refrigeration transport business improved through organic growth in north america and europe. revenue improvements in the climate segment were partially offset by the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates. industrial net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015 increased by 2.1% or $ 64.7 million , compared with the same period of 2014. the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix (1.6 )% acquisitions 8.9 % pricing 0.4 % currency translation (5.6 )% total 2.1 % the primary driver of the revenue increase related to acquisition of the engineered centrifugal compression business during the year. in addition, club car revenues increased from gains in golf cars, utility vehicles and aftermarket sales. however, overall organic revenues decreased due to weak industrial markets. segment results were also negatively impacted by foreign currency exchange rate movements. operating income/margin operating margin improved to 11.0% for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to 10.9% for the same period of 2014. the increase was primarily due to productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.9%), pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.3%) and favorable product mix and volume (0.3%), partially offset by increased investment and restructuring spending (0.5%), unfavorable currency impacts (0.5%), primarily from the euro, and the inclusion of the engineered centrifugal compression business and related step-up amortization (0.4%). our operating income and operating margin by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2015 operating income (expense) 2014 operating income (expense) period change 2015 operating margin 2014 operating margin climate $ 1,302.5 $ 1,195.6 $ 106.9 12.7 % 12.1 % industrial 372.4 443.0 (70.6 ) 12.1 % 14.7 % unallocated corporate expenses (216.9 ) (233.9 ) 17.0 n/a n/a total $ 1,458.0 $ 1,404.7 $ 53.3 11.0 % 10.9 % climate operating margin improved to 12.7% for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to 12.1% for the same period of 2014. the improvement was primarily due to favorable product mix and volume (0.7%) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.5%), partially offset by increased investment spending (0.3%) and unfavorable currency impacts (0.3%), primarily from the euro. industrial operating margin decreased to 12.1% for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to 14.7% for the same period of 2014. the decrease was primarily due to the inclusion of the engineered centrifugal compression business and related step-up amortization (1.9%), unfavorable volume/product mix (1.4%), increased investment and restructuring spending (0.9%) and 27 table of contents unfavorable currency impacts (0.8%), partially offset by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (1.8%) and pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.6%). unallocated corporate expenses unallocated corporate expense for the year ended december 31, 2015 decreased by 7.3% or $ 17.0 million , compared with the same period of 2014 due to lower professional expenses. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2015 increased by $ 2.3 million compared with the same period of 2014, primarily as a result of higher average debt balances during 2015, partially offset by a lower weighted-average interest rate during the period. other income/(expense), net the components of other income/(expense), net, for the year ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2015 2014 period change interest income $ 10.6 $ 13.2 $ (2.6 ) exchange loss (36.2 ) (0.1 ) (36.1 ) income from equity investment 12.6 7.8 4.8 other activity, net 25.9 9.1 16.8 other income/(expense), net $ 12.9 $ 30.0 $ (17.1 ) we recognized a loss on foreign currency exchange of $36.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. this loss is comprised of a $42.6 million pre-tax charge recorded in the first quarter related to the remeasurement of net monetary assets denominated in venezuelan bolivar, partially offset by foreign currency transaction gains. we recognized income from our equity investment in hussmann, a refrigeration display case business, of $12.6 million and $7.8 million for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. our ownership interest was 36.7% and 37.2% at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. other activity primarily consists of income realized from insurance settlements on asbestos-related matters. in addition, other activity for the year ended december 31, 2014 includes a $6.0 million gain on the sale of an investment. provision for income taxes the 2015 effective tax rate was 43.3% which is higher than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the $227 million charge taken to settle the irs matters described within the significant events in the year section in management's discussion and analysis, which increased our effective tax rate by 18.1%. this effect was partially offset by a $65 million benefit from the settlement of an audit in a major tax jurisdiction, less a tax charge of $52 million from a change in permanent reinvestment assertions on earnings from certain of our subsidiaries in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from non-u.s. jurisdictions account for approximately 38% of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income is earned and taxed outside the u.s. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. when comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between u.s. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability on our overall effective tax rate. the 2014 effective tax rate was 24.3%. the 2014 effective tax rate is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate have a lower effective rate partially offset by u.s. state and local income taxes and u.s. tax on non-u.s. earnings. discontinued operations the components of discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2015 2014 period change net revenues $ $ $ pre-tax earnings (loss) from operations (23.2 ) 41.2 (64.4 ) tax expense (1.1 ) (6.5 ) 5.4 discontinued operations, net of tax $ (24.3 ) $ 34.7 $ (59.0 ) 28 table of contents discontinued operations by business for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2015 2014 period change allegion spin-off, net of tax $ (4.5 ) $ 15.0 $ (19.5 ) other discontinued operations, net of tax (19.8 ) 19.7 (39.5 ) discontinued operations, net of tax $ (24.3 ) $ 34.7 $ (59.0 ) allegion spin-off on december 1, 2013, (the distribution date) we completed the spin-off of our commercial and residential security businesses, now under the name of allegion, plc (allegion), to our shareholders (the spin-off). allegion is now an independently traded public company. after-tax earnings from allegion for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily represent adjustments for certain tax matters. other discontinued operations other discontinued operations, net of tax for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 are mainly related to postretirement benefits, product liability, worker's compensation, tax, and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related) from previously sold businesses. year ended december 31, 2014 compared to the year ended december 31, 2013 dollar amounts in millions 2014 2013 period change 2014 % of revenues 2013 % of revenues net revenues $ 12,891.4 $ 12,350.5 $ 540.9 cost of goods sold (8,982.8 ) (8,722.3 ) (260.5 ) 69.8% 70.6% selling and administrative expenses (2,503.9 ) (2,523.2 ) 19.3 19.4% 20.4% operating income 1,404.7 1,105.0 299.7 10.9% 8.9% interest expense (225.3 ) (278.8 ) 53.5 other income/(expense), net 30.0 3.4 26.6 earnings before income taxes 1,209.4 829.6 379.8 provision for income taxes (293.7 ) (189.0 ) (104.7 ) earnings from continuing operations 915.7 640.6 275.1 gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 34.7 13.3 21.4 net earnings $ 950.4 $ 653.9 $ 296.5 net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014 increased by 4.4% , or $540.9 million , compared with the same period of 2013, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 4.6 % pricing 0.5 % currency translation (0.7 )% total 4.4 % the increase in revenues was primarily driven by volume improvements within the climate and industrial segments. our revenues by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2014 2013 % change climate $ 9,879.7 $ 9,414.0 4.9% industrial 3,011.7 2,936.5 2.6% total $ 12,891.4 $ 12,350.5 29 table of contents climate net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014 increased by 4.9% or $ 465.7 million , compared with the same period of 2013, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 5.0 % pricing 0.6 % currency translation (0.7 )% total 4.9 % commercial hvac net revenues increased due to improvements in equipment, parts, services and solutions markets. residential hvac net revenues increased due to increased volume in all major product categories. thermo king refrigerated transport revenues increases in north america were partially offset by declines overseas. industrial net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014 increased by 2.6% , or $ 75.2 million , compared with the same period of 2013, which primarily resulted from the following. volume/product mix 3.2 % pricing 0.3 % currency translation (0.9 )% total 2.6 % air compressors and industrial product net revenues increased with pricing gains in americas. club car net revenues increased with growth in both golf car and utility vehicle sales. operating income/margin operating margin improved to 10.9% for the year ended december 31, 2014 , compared to 8.9% for the same period of 2013. the increase was primarily due to productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (1.1%), favorable product mix and volume (0.6%), improved pricing net of material inflation (0.2%) and decreased restructuring spending (0.6%), partially offset by increased investment (0.5%). our operating income and operating margin by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2014 operating income (expense) 2013 operating income (expense) period change 2014 operating margin 2013 operating margin climate $ 1,195.6 $ 936.0 $ 259.6 12.1 % 9.9 % industrial 443.0 450.3 (7.3 ) 14.7 % 15.3 % unallocated corporate expenses (233.9 ) (281.3 ) $ 47.4 n/a n/a total $ 1,404.7 $ 1,105.0 $ 299.7 10.9 % 8.9 % climate segment operating margin improved to 12.1% for the year ended december 31, 2014, compared to 9.9% for the same period of 2013. the improvement was primarily driven by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (1.2%), favorable volume/product mix (0.6%), pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.2%) and decreased restructuring spending (0.4%); partially offset by increased investment spending (0.2%). industrial segment operating margin decreased to 14.7% for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to 15.3% for the same period of 2013. the decrease was due to increased investment spending (1.2%), partially offset by lower restructuring spending (0.4%) and favorable volume/product mix (0.2%). unallocated corporate expenses unallocated corporate expense for the year ended december 31, 2014 decreased by 16.9% or $47.4 million, compared with the same period of 2013 due to lower professional expenses. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2014 decreased by $ 53.5 million compared with the same period of 2013, primarily as a result of lower redemption premium expense from early debt retirements ($10.2 million in 2014 compared to $45.6 million in 2013) and lower interest rates on refinanced debt. 30 table of contents other income/(expense), net the components of other income/(expense), net, for the year ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2014 2013 period change interest income $ 13.2 $ 12.8 $ 0.4 exchange loss (0.1 ) (14.0 ) 13.9 income (loss) from equity investment 7.8 (2.6 ) 10.4 other activity, net 9.1 7.2 1.9 other income/(expense), net $ 30.0 $ 3.4 $ 26.6 we recognized income from our equity investment in hussmann, a refrigeration display case business, of $ 7.8 million and a loss of $ 2.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. our ownership interest was 37.2% at both december 31, 2014 and 2013 . other activity primarily consists of income realized from insurance settlements on asbestos-related matters. in addition, other activity for the year ended december 31, 2014 includes a $ 6.0 million gain on the sale of an investment. provision for income taxes the 2014 effective tax rate was 24.3%. the 2014 effective tax rate is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate have a lower effective rate partially offset by u.s. state and local income taxes and u.s. tax on non-u.s. earnings. the 2013 effective tax rate was 22.8%. the 2013 effective tax rate is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate, have a lower effective rate and a $36 million net reduction in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits primarily due to the settlement of an audit in a major tax jurisdiction, partially offset by a tax charge of $51 million as a result of a change in assertion in certain subsidiary earnings that the company has previously determined to be permanently reinvested and approximately $74 million of allegion spin-off tax charges, primarily related to a net increase in our valuation allowances on certain deferred tax assets. discontinued operations the components of discontinued operations for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2014 2013 period change net revenues $ $ 1,889.9 $ (1,889.9 ) pre-tax earnings from operations 41.2 84.7 (43.5 ) tax expense (6.5 ) (71.4 ) 64.9 discontinued operations, net of tax $ 34.7 $ 13.3 $ 21.4 discontinued operations by business for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2014 2013 period change allegion spin-off, net of tax $ 15.0 $ 12.4 $ 2.6 other discontinued operations, net of tax 19.7 0.9 18.8 discontinued operations, net of tax $ 34.7 $ 13.3 $ 21.4 allegion spin-off on december 1, 2013, (the distribution date) we completed the spin-off of our commercial and residential security businesses, now under the name of allegion, plc (allegion), to our shareholders (the spin-off). allegion is now an independently traded public company. after-tax earnings from allegion for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily represent adjustments for certain tax matters. after-tax earnings from allegion for the year ended december 31, 2013 includes spin costs of $128.0 million . also, the 2013 results include non-cash goodwill charges and tax of $111.4 million and $148.2 million , respectively. other discontinued operations other discontinued operations, net of tax for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 are mainly related to postretirement benefits, product liability, worker's compensation, and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related) from previously sold businesses and tax effects of post-closing purchase price adjustments. 31 table of contents liquidity and capital resources we assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. in doing so, we review and analyze our current cash on hand, the number of days our sales are outstanding, inventory turns, capital expenditure commitments and income tax payments. our cash requirements primarily consist of the following: funding of working capital funding of capital expenditures debt service requirements our primary sources of liquidity include cash balances on hand, cash flows from operations, proceeds from debt offerings, commercial paper, and borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities. we earn a significant amount of our operating income in jurisdictions where it is deemed to be permanently reinvested. our most prominent jurisdiction of operation is the u.s. we currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate funds to the u.s., and no provision for u.s. income taxes has been made with respect to such earnings. we expect existing cash and cash equivalents available to the u.s., the cash generated by our u.s. operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital and debt markets will be sufficient to fund our u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. in addition, we expect existing non-u.s. cash and cash equivalents and the cash generated by our non-u.s. operations will be sufficient to fund our non-u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. should we require more capital in the u.s. than is generated by our u.s. operations, and we determine that repatriation of non-u.s. cash is necessary, such amounts would be subject to u.s. federal income taxes. in february 2016, we announced an increase in our quarterly share dividend from $0.29 to $0.32 per share beginning with our march 2016 payment. in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the previous share repurchase program. the new share repurchase program began in april of 2014. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we repurchased 4.4 million shares for $ 250.1 million . as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately $667 million remaining on the authorized plan. since january 1, 2016, we repurchased and settled 4.9 million shares for $250.0 million. we have approximately $417 million remaining on the authorized plan. we expect our available cash flow, committed credit lines and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to fund the increased dividend and share repurchases. on january 1, 2015 we completed the acquisition of the assets of the cameron international corporation's engineered centrifugal compression business for $850 million, and on march 4, 2015 we completed the acquisition of frigoblock for 100 million (approximately $113 million). these acquisitions were funded through a combination of cash from operations and debt. liquidity the following table contains several key measures of our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended december 31: in millions 2015 2014 2013 cash and cash equivalents $ 736.8 $ 1,705.2 $ 1,937.2 short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt 504.2 482.7 367.7 long-term debt 3,734.8 3,741.7 3,153.5 total debt 4,239.0 4,224.4 3,521.2 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 5,816.7 5,987.4 7,068.9 total equity 5,879.2 6,045.4 7,131.3 debt-to-total capital ratio 41.9 % 41.1 % 33.1 % 32 table of contents debt and credit facilities the primary components of our short-term and long-term obligations are as follows: commercial paper program we use borrowings under the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes. the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, under the commercial paper program is $ 2 billion as of december 31, 2015 . under the commercial paper program, we may issue notes from time to time through ingersoll-rand global holding company limited or ingersoll-rand luxembourg finance s.a. each of ingersoll-rand plc, ingersoll-rand international holding limited, ingersoll-rand lux international holding company s. .r.l., ingersoll-rand global holding company limited and ingersoll-rand company provided irrevocable and unconditional guarantees for the notes issued under the commercial paper program. we had $ 143.0 million and $ 100.0 million of commercial paper outstanding at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , respectively. debentures with put feature at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , we had outstanding $343.0 million of fixed rate debentures which only require early repayment at the option of the holder. these debentures contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. if exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder's option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. if these options are not exercised, the final maturity dates would range between 2027 and 2028 . holders of these debentures had the option to exercise the put feature on $ 37.2 million of the outstanding debentures in february 2015, subject to the notice requirement. no material exercises were made. holders of the remaining $ 305.8 million in outstanding debentures had the option to exercise the put feature, subject to the notice requirement, in november 2015. no material exercises were made. senior notes due 2020, 2024, and 2044 in october 2014, we issued $ 1.1 billion principal amount of senior notes in three tranches through a newly-created wholly-owned subsidiary, ingersoll-rand luxembourg finance s.a. the tranches consist of $ 300 million of 2.625% senior notes due in 2020, $ 500 million of 3.55% senior notes due 2024, and $ 300 million of 4.65% senior notes due in 2044. the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by each of ingersoll-rand plc, ingersoll-rand international holding limited, ingersoll-rand lux international holding company s. .r.l., ingersoll-rand global holding company limited and ingersoll-rand company. interest on the notes is paid twice a year in arrears. we have the option to redeem the notes in whole or in part at any time, prior to their stated maturity date at redemption prices set forth in the indenture agreement. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations. the proceeds from the notes were primarily used to fund the october 2014 redemption of the $ 200 million of 5.50% notes due 2015 and $ 300 million 4.75% senior notes due 2015, as well as fund the acquisition of the engineered centrifugal compression business. related to the redemption, the company recognized $ 10.2 million of premium expense in interest expense in 2014. senior notes due 2019, 2023, and 2043 in june 2013, we issued $ 1.55 billion principal amount of senior notes in three tranches through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ingersoll-rand global holding company limited pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act. the tranches consist of $ 350 million of 2.875% senior notes due in 2019, $ 700 million of 4.250% senior notes due in 2023, and $ 500 million of 5.750% senior notes due in 2043. the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by each of ingersoll-rand plc, ingersoll-rand international holding limited, ingersoll-rand lux international holding company s. .r.l. and ingersoll-rand luxembourg finance s.a. later in 2013, the notes were modified to include ingersoll-rand company. interest on the notes is paid twice a year in arrears. we have the option to redeem the notes in whole or in part at any time, prior to their stated maturity date at redemption prices set forth in the indenture agreement. the notes are subject to certain customary covenants, however, none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations. the proceeds from these notes were primarily used to fund the july 2013 redemption of $ 600 million of 6.0% senior notes due 2013 and $ 655 million of 9.5% senior notes due 2014 and to fund expenses related to the spin-off of the commercial and residential security businesses. the july 2013 redemption resulted in $ 45.6 million of premium expense, which was recorded in 2013 in interest expense. other credit facilities on march 20, 2014, we entered into an unsecured 5-year, $ 1.0 billion revolving credit facility through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ingersoll-rand global holding company limited. the credit facility matures in march 2019 and replaced the prior credit facility of $1 billion which was due to expire in 2015. we also have a 5-year, $ 1.0 billion revolving credit facility through ingersoll-rand global holding company limited that matures in march 2017. during the fourth quarter of 2014, both credit agreements were amended to include ingersoll-rand lux international holding company s. .r.l. as an additional borrower. 33 table of contents ingersoll-rand plc, ingersoll-rand international holding limited, ingersoll-rand lux international holding company s. .r.l., ingersoll-rand global holding company limited, ingersoll-rand company and ingersoll-rand luxembourg finance s.a. have each provided irrevocable and unconditional guarantees for these credit facilities. the total committed revolving credit facilities of $ 2.0 billion are unused and provide support for our commercial paper program, as well as other general corporate purposes.we also have various non-u.s. lines of credit that provide aggregate borrowing capacity of $ 948.8 million , of which $ 698.7 million was unused at december 31, 2015 . these lines provide support for bank guarantees, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes. for additional information regarding the terms of our short-term and long-term obligations and their related guarantees, see notes 7 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements. pension plans our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. we seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contribution and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. we use a dynamic approach to asset allocation whereby a plan's allocation to fixed income assets increases as the plan's funded status improves. we monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. none of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to the volatility in the markets. for further details on pension plan activity, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. cash flows the following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended december 31, respectively. for additional details, please see the consolidated statements of cash flows in the consolidated financial statements. in millions 2015 2014 2013 operating cash flow provided by continuing operations $ 886.2 $ 991.7 $ 798.8 investing cash flow used in continuing operations (1,192.9 ) (197.0 ) (213.2 ) financing cash flow provided by (used in) continuing operations (490.3 ) (859.5 ) 354.1 operating activities net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $ 886.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared with $ 991.7 million in 2014 . the change in operating activities is primarily related to the net cash outflow for the irs settlement previously mentioned of approximately $ 364 million , along with the change in net working capital. net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $ 991.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared with $ 798.8 million in 2013 . operating cash flows for 2014 reflect improved earnings from continuing operations partially offset by rising working capital in 2014. investing activities net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $ 1,192.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared with $ 197.0 million in 2014 . the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to the previously mentioned acquisition of the engineered centrifugal compression business in january 2015 for approximately $850 million and the acquisition of frigoblock in march 2015 for approximately 100 million (approximately $113 million). net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $ 197.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared with $ 213.2 million in 2013 . the change in investing activities is primarily attributable to $30.3 million cash dividend received from equity investments during the year ended december 31, 2014. financing activities net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations during the year ended december 31, 2015 was $ 490.3 million , compared with $ 859.5 million in 2014 . the change in financing activities is primarily driven by the company repurchasing 23.0 million shares for approximately $1.4 billion during the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the company repurchasing 4.4 million shares for approximately $250.1 million during the year ended december 31, 2015 . net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations during the year ended december 31, 2014 was $ 859.5 million , compared with net cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations of $ 354.1 million in 2013 . the change in financing activities is primarily related to a transfer of $1,274.2 million from allegion in connection with the spin-off in 2013. 34 table of contents announced sale of hussmann minority interest on december 21, 2015, we announced we will sell our remaining equity interest in hussmann parent, inc. ( hussmann ) as part of a transaction in which panasonic corporation will acquire 100 percent of hussmann's shares. we expect to receive net proceeds of approximately $ 425 million . the transaction is anticipated to close in the first half of 2016 subject to customary approvals and closing conditions and has no impact on the results of our operations in 2015. capital resources based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchase programs, upcoming debt maturities, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future. capital expenditures were $ 249.6 million , $ 233.5 million and $ 242.2 million for 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs and provide environmental enhancements and advanced technologies for existing facilities. the capital expenditure program for 2016 is estimated to be approximately $244 million, including amounts approved in prior periods. many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges. for financial market risk impacting the company, see item 7a. "quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk." capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper program. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2015 , our credit ratings were as follows: short-term long-term moody's p-2 baa2 standard and poor's a-2 bbb the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2015 , our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. 35 table of contents contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment periods: in millions less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total short-term debt $ 153.4 $ $ $ $ 153.4 long-term debt 350.8 * 765.3 664.7 2,304.8 $ 4,085.6 interest payments on long-term debt 209.3 ** 393.9 283.0 1,325.4 2,211.6 purchase obligations 799.9 18.1 818.0 operating leases 118.3 159.6 84.8 42.8 405.5 total contractual cash obligations $ 1,631.7 $ 1,336.9 $ 1,032.5 $ 3,673.0 $ 7,674.1 * includes $343.0 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. ** includes nominal amount related to interest of short-term debt. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. pensions at december 31, 2015 , we had net obligations of $ 751.8 million , which consist of noncurrent pension assets of $ 2.7 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $ 754.5 million . it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $ 59.2 million to our plans worldwide in 2016 . the timing and amounts of future contributions are dependent upon the funding status of the plan, which is expected to vary as a result of changes in interest rates, returns on underlying assets, and other factors. therefore, pension contributions have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2015 , we had postretirement benefit obligations of $ 624.1 million . we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $ 56.3 million in 2016 . because benefit payments are not required to be funded in advance, and the timing and amounts of future payments for are dependent on the cost of benefits for retirees covered by the plan, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. income taxes at december 31, 2015 , we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $ 174.9 million and $ 55.5 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding matters relating to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits. contingent liabilities we are involved in various litigations, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. see note 7 and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on matters affecting our liquidity. critical accounting policies management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states (gaap). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from estimates. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. 36 table of contents the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. allowance for doubtful accounts we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable which represents our best estimate of probable loss inherent in our accounts receivable portfolio. this estimate is based upon our two step policy that results in the total recorded allowance for doubtful accounts. the first step is to record a portfolio reserve based on the aging of the outstanding accounts receivable portfolio and our historical experience with our end markets, customer base and products. the second step is to create a specific reserve for significant accounts as to which the customer's ability to satisfy their financial obligation to us is in doubt due to circumstances such as bankruptcy, deteriorating operating results or financial position. in these circumstances, management uses its judgment to record an allowance based on the best estimate of probable loss, factoring in such considerations as the market value of collateral, if applicable. actual results could differ from those estimates. these estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically, and the effects of changes, if any, are reflected in the statement of operations in the period that they are determined. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level and begins with a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test included in u.s. gaap. for those reporting units where it is required, the first step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a second step is performed, wherein the reporting unit's carrying value of goodwill is compared to the implied fair value of goodwill. to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value, impairment exists and must be recognized. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value in step one is determined using three valuation techniques: a discounted cash flow model (an income approach), a market-adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (a market approach), and a similar transactions method (also a market approach). the discounted cash flow approach relies on our estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. the earnings and revenue multiple approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. the similar transactions method considers prices paid in transactions that have recently occurred in our industry or in related industries. these methods are weighted 50%, 40% and 10%, respectively. in step 2, the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, was the price paid to acquire that reporting unit. recoverability of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is first assessed using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. this assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset. for those indefinite-lived assets where it is required, a fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. the determination of the estimated fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. we developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. 37 table of contents for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2015, we calculated the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 11.0% to 14.0% and terminal growth rates ranging from 3.0% to 3.5%. under the guideline company method, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 7.0 to 11.0 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 37%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.8% to 12.5%, terminal growth rate of 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 1.0% to 4.5%. for all tradenames, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 24%, with the exception of one tradename with a carrying value of approximately $28 million as december 31, 2015, which had an excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) of approximately 7%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. we believe that our use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. loss contingencies liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business, including litigation and administrative proceedings, environmental and asbestos matters and product liability, product warranty, worker's compensation and other claims. we have recorded reserves in the financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience data depending on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances with consultation of legal counsel, internal and external consultants and engineers. subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, we believe our estimated reserves are reasonable and do not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows for any year. asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. we record a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. asbestos related defense costs are excluded from the asbestos claims liability and are recorded separately as services are incurred. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. we record certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax, as they relate to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with trane u.s. inc.'s asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries which are recorded within continuing operations. refer to note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for further details of asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized and earned when all of the following criteria are satisfied: (a) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; (b) the price is fixed or determinable; (c) collectability is reasonably assured; and (d) delivery has occurred or service has been rendered. delivery generally occurs when the title and the risks and rewards of ownership have substantially transferred to the customer. both the persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement and fixed or determinable price criteria are deemed to be satisfied upon receipt of an executed and legally binding sales agreement or contract that clearly defines the terms and conditions of the transaction including the respective obligations of the parties. if 38 table of contents the defined terms and conditions allow variability in all or a component of the price, revenue is not recognized until such time that the price becomes fixed or determinable. at the point of sale, we validate that existence of an enforceable claim that requires payment within a reasonable amount of time and assess the collectability of that claim. if collectability is not deemed to be reasonably assured, then revenue recognition is deferred until such time that collectability becomes probable or cash is received. delivery is not considered to have occurred until the customer has taken title and assumed the risks and rewards of ownership. service and installation revenue are recognized when earned. in some instances, customer acceptance provisions are included in sales arrangements to give the buyer the ability to ensure the delivered product or service meets the criteria established in the order. in these instances, revenue recognition is deferred until the acceptance terms specified in the arrangement are fulfilled through customer acceptance or a demonstration that established criteria have been satisfied. if uncertainty exists about customer acceptance, revenue is not recognized until acceptance has occurred. we offer various sales incentive programs to our customers, dealers, and distributors. sales incentive programs do not preclude revenue recognition, but do require an accrual for the company's best estimate of expected activity. examples of the sales incentives that are accrued for as a contra receivable and sales deduction at the point of sale include, but are not limited to, discounts (i.e. net 30 type), coupons, and rebates where the customer does not have to provide any additional requirements to receive the discount. sales returns and customer disputes involving a question of quantity or price are also accounted for as a reduction in revenue and a contra receivable. at december 31, 2015 and 2014, we had a customer claim accrual (contra receivable) of $4.0 million and $4.7 million , respectively. all other incentives or incentive programs where the customer is required to reach a certain sales level, remain a customer for a certain period of time, provide a rebate form or is subject to additional requirements are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and establishment of a liability. at december 31, 2015 and 2014, we had a sales incentive accrual of $83.2 million and $73.4 million , respectively. each of these accruals represents the best estimate we expect to pay related to previously sold units. these estimates are reviewed regularly for accuracy. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between our estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. we enter into maintenance and extended warranty contracts with customers. revenue related to these services is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, unless sufficient historical evidence indicates that the cost of providing these services is incurred on an other than straight-line basis. in these circumstances, revenue is recognized over the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing the service. we, primarily through our climate segment, provides equipment (e.g. hvac, controls), integrated solutions, and installation designed to customer specifications through construction-type contracts. the term of these types of contracts is typically less than one year, but can be as long as three years. revenues related to these contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with gaap. this measure of progress toward completion, utilized to recognize sales and profits, is based on the proportion of actual cost incurred to date as compared to the total estimate of contract costs at completion. the timing of revenue recognition often differs from the invoicing schedule to the customer, with revenue recognition in advance of customer invoicing recorded to unbilled accounts receivable and invoicing in advance of revenue recognition recorded to deferred revenue. at december 31, 2015 , all recorded receivables (billed and unbilled) are due within one year. we re-evaluates our contract estimates periodically and reflects changes in estimates in the current period using the cumulative catch-up method. these periodic reviews have not historically resulted in significant adjustments. if estimated contract costs are in excess of contract revenues, then the excess costs are accrued. we enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple elements, such as equipment, installation and service revenue. for multiple element arrangements, each element is evaluated to determine the separate units of accounting. the total arrangement consideration is then allocated to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling price at the inception of the arrangement. the relative selling price is determined using vendor specific objective evidence (vsoe) of selling price, if it exists; otherwise, third-party evidence (tpe) of selling price is used. if neither vsoe nor tpe of selling price exists for a deliverable, a best estimate of the selling price is developed for that deliverable. we primarily utilizes vsoe to determine its relative selling price. we recognize revenue for delivered elements when the delivered item has stand-alone value to the customer, the basic revenue recognition criteria have been met, and only customary refund or return rights related to the delivered elements exist. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-u.s. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. we regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. 39 table of contents the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. we will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. employee benefit plans we provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, employee mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with gaap. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. we review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. at december 31, 2015, we refined the methodology used to calculate service and interest costs for both pension and other postretirement benefits. this refinement will result in the recognition of different costs in future periods as compared to the historical approach. historically, we estimated service and interest costs utilizing a weighted-average discount rate calculated from spot rates selected along hypothetical yield curves based on corporate bonds rated aa quality. beginning with the measurement of the december 31, 2015 benefit obligations, we refined the measurement approach to utilize multiple specific spot rates, along the same hypothetical yield curve, that correlate with the timing of the relevant projected cash flows. our intent with this refinement is to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs. the change did not have an impact on the measurement of the december 31, 2015 benefit obligations. however, we estimate the impact on 2016 net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs to be a reduction of $22.0 million and $5.8 million, respectively. we concluded that this refinement is a change in accounting estimate. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan's investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of each measurement date. we believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the expected 2016 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $7.9 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by approximately $6.7 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would decrease expected 2016 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $1.0 million and a 1.0% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate would increase the service and interest cost by approximately $0.8 million. recent accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. many of our non-u.s. operations have a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar, and their results are translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes. therefore, our reported results will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or strengthening 40 table of contents of the u.s. dollar against the respective foreign currency. our largest concentration of revenues from non-u.s. operations as of december 31, 2015 are in euros and chinese yuan. a hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in the average exchange rate used to translate net revenues as of december 31, 2015 from either euros or chinese yuan-based operations into u.s. dollars would not have a material impact on our financial statements. we use derivative instruments to hedge those material exposures that cannot be naturally offset. the instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2015 , a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $ 64.5 million , as compared with $ 44.2 million at december 31, 2014 . these amounts, when realized, would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying transactions. commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2015 . interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations. 41 table of contentsrisk factors 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 37 additional geographic data is provided in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. customers we have no customer that accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenues in 2016 , 2015 or 2014 . no material part of our business is dependent upon a single customer or a small group of customers; therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. raw materials we manufacture many of the components included in our products, which requires us to employ a wide variety of commodities. principal commodities, such as steel, copper and aluminum, are purchased from a large number of independent sources around the world. in the past, variability in prices for some commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, have caused margin pressure in some of our businesses. we have historically been able to adjust pricing with customers to maintain our margins; however, we may not always be able to offset these cost changes with price changes. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for the foreseeable future. there have been no commodity shortages which have had a material adverse effect on our businesses. however, significant changes in certain material costs may have an adverse impact on our costs and operating margins. to mitigate this potential impact, we enter into long-term supply contracts in order to manage our exposure to potential supply disruptions. working capital we manufacture products that must be readily available to meet our customers' rapid delivery requirements. therefore, we maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business needs and our customers' requirements. such working capital requirements are not, however, in the opinion of management, materially different from those experienced by our major competitors. we believe our sales and payment terms are competitive in and appropriate for the markets in which we compete. seasonality demand for certain of our products and services is influenced by weather conditions. for instance, sales in our commercial and residential hvac businesses historically tend to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because this 5 table of contents represents summer in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, which is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of our business and impact overall results of operations. research and development we engage in research and development activities in an effort to introduce new products, enhance existing product effectiveness, improve ease of use and reliability as well as expand the various applications for which our products may be appropriate. in addition, we continually evaluate developing technologies in areas that we believe will enhance our business for possible investment or acquisition. we anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development activities as we look to maintain and improve our competitive position. patents and licenses we own numerous patents and patent applications, and are licensed under others. although in aggregate we consider our patents and licenses to be valuable to our operations, we do not believe that our business is materially dependent on a single patent or license or any group of them. in our opinion, engineering, production skills and experience are more responsible for our market position than our patents and/or licenses. backlog our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at december 31 , was as follows: in millions 2016 2015 climate $ 1,754.4 $ 1,557.0 industrial 443.2 574.0 total $ 2,197.6 $ 2,131.0 these backlog figures are based on orders received. while the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision and deferral, and to a lesser extent cancellation or termination. we expect to ship substantially all the december 31, 2016 backlog during 2017 . environmental matters we continue to be dedicated to an environmental program to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process and to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the environmental protection agency and similar state authorities. we have also been identified as a potentially responsible party (prp) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal superfund and state remediation sites. for all such sites, there are other prps and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal. in estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other prps who may be jointly and severally liable. the ability of other prps to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties' financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future. for a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos related matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in many of the lawsuits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. 6 table of contents see also the discussion under part i, item 3, "legal proceedings," and part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "contingent liabilities," as well as further detail in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. employees as of december 31, 2016 , we employed approximately 45,000 people throughout the world. available information we file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934. this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the board of directors of the company has also adopted and posted in the investor relations section of the company's website our corporate governance guidelines and charters for each of the board's standing committees. the contents of the company's website are not incorporated by reference in this report. 7 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following is a list of executive officers of the company as of february 13, 2017 . name and age date of service as an executive officer principal occupation and other information for past five years michael w. lamach (53) 2/16/2004 chairman of the board (since june 2010) and chief executive officer (since february 2010); president and chief operating officer (2009-2010); senior vice president and president, trane commercial systems (2008-2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2004-2008) susan k. carter (58) 10/2/2013 senior vice president and chief financial officer (since october 2013); executive vice president and chief financial officer, kbr inc. (a global engineering, construction and services business), (2009-2013); executive vice president and chief financial officer, lennox international inc. (a heating, air conditioning and refrigeration company), (2004 to 2009) marcia j. avedon (55) 2/7/2007 senior vice president, human resources, communications and corporate affairs (since june 2013); senior vice president, human resources and communications (2007 - 2013) paul a. camuti (55) 8/1/2011 senior vice president, innovation and chief technology officer (since august 2011); president, smart grid applications, siemens energy, inc. (an energy technology subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2010 -2011); president, research division, siemens corporation (a diversified global technology company) (2009 - 2010); president and chief executive officer, siemens corporate research, inc. (the research subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2005 - 2009) maria c. green (64) 11/2/2015 senior vice president and general counsel (since november 2015); senior vice president, general counsel and secretary, illinois tool works inc. (a global manufacturer of a diversified range of industrial products and equipment), (2012-2015); vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary, illinois tool works inc. (2011-2012) gary s. michel (54) 8/1/2011 senior vice president and president, residential hvac and supply (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, residential solutions (2011-2013); president and chief executive officer, club car (2007 - 2011) didier teirlinck (60) 6/4/2008 executive vice president, climate segment (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, climate solutions (2009-2013); president, climate control technologies (2008-2009); president, climate control europe (2005-2008) keith a. sultana (47) 10/12/2015 senior vice president, global operations and integrated supply chain (since october 2015); vice president, global procurement (january 2015 to october 2015); vice president, global integrated supply chain (gisc) for climate solutions (2010 to 2014) robert g. zafari (58) 7/1/2010 executive vice president, industrial segment (since december 2013); senior vice president and president, industrial technologies (2010-2013); president, tcs and climate solutions emeia (2009-2010); president, security technologies esa (2007-2008) christopher j. kuehn (44) 6/1/2015 vice president and chief accounting officer (since june 2015); vice president and corporate controller , whirlpool corporation (a global manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances), (2012-2015); vice president, global cfo thermal equipment and services segment, spx corporation (a global supplier of infrastructure equipment platforms in heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac), (2008-2012) no family relationship exists between any of the above-listed executive officers of the company. all officers are elected to hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. 8 table of contents item 1a . risk factors our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks set forth below are those we consider most significant. we face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material but could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations. you should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. in that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. our global operations subject us to economic risks. our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the u.s. and internationally, including europe, china, brazil, venezuela, middle east, africa, india, argentina, mexico and russia. these activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: changes in local laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints; limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries; trade protection measures such as import or export restrictions and requirements, the imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas or revocation or material modification of trade agreements; difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and recessions, economic downturns, slowing economic growth and social and political instability. these risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we face significant competition in the markets that we serve and our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services. the markets that we serve are highly competitive. we compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. there has been consolidation and new entrants within our industries and there may be future consolidation and new entrants which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the competitive landscape in which we operate. due to our global footprint we are competing worldwide with large companies and with smaller, local operators who may have customer, regulatory or economic advantages in the geographies in which they are located. in addition, we must develop and commercialize new products and services in a rapidly changing technological and business environment in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. the development and commercialization of new products and services require a significant investment of resources and an anticipation of the impact of new technologies and the ability to compete with others who may have superior resources. we cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. we also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by our current and future markets. failure to develop new products and services that are accepted by these markets could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the capital and credit markets are important to our business. instability in u.s. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. in particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategies. our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit at interest rates and on terms that are acceptable to them could lead to 9 table of contents insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. see part ii item 7a, "quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk." we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. many of our non-u.s. operations have a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar, and their results are translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes. therefore, our reported results will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the respective foreign currency. we use derivative instruments to hedge those material exposures that cannot be naturally offset. the instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business or the business operations of previously-owned entities. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, contract claims or other commercial disputes, product liability, product defects and asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against the total aggregate amount of losses sustained as a result of such proceedings and contingencies. as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other events could affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. we may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. we rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are supported by third party vendors including cloud services, to manage and operate our business. we are also investing in new information technology systems that are designed to continue improving our operations. if these systems cease to function properly, if these systems experience security breaches or disruptions or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 10 table of contents security breaches or disruptions of our technology systems, infrastructure or products could negatively impact our business and financial results. our information technology systems and infrastructure and technology embedded in certain of our control products may be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized security intrusions. it is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period. in addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly result in security breaches or disruptions. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly changing and evolving. despite having instituted security policies and business continuity plans, and implementing and regularly reviewing and updating processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access, the ever-evolving threats mean we must continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. our systems, networks and certain of our control products may be vulnerable to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events that could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information or the personally identifiable data relating to our customers, employees and business partners and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation. such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to a cybersecurity attack or disruptions resulting from such attacks. commodity shortages and price increases and higher energy prices could adversely affect our financial results. we rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. a disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. volatility in the prices of these commodities or the impact of inflationary increases could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. conversely, in the event there is deflation, we may experience pressure from our customers to reduce prices. there can be no assurance that we would be able to reduce our costs (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. we do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against this volatility. while we use fixed price contracts to mitigate this exposure, we expect any future hedging activity to seek to minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices which would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases. additionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations in the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products, and supplying services, to customers around the world. consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. at december 31, 2016 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $ 5.7 billion and $ 2.7 billion , respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and sustained market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods recognized. global climate change and related regulations could negatively affect our business. refrigerants are essential to many of our products and there is a growing awareness and concern regarding global warming potential of such materials. as such, national, regional and international regulations and policies are being considered to curtail their use. as we begin to see regulations impeding the use of the current class of widely used refrigerants we are planning for, and managing transitions to, sustainable solutions. we have committed to increase energy efficiency and reduce our climate impact with operational and product-related climate targets, including among other initiatives: (i) 50 percent reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions refrigerant footprint of our products for our customers by 2020 and lower global warming potential alternatives across our portfolio by 2030; (ii) $500 million investment in product-related research and development from 2015-2020 to fund the long-term reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; and (iii) 35 percent reduction in the greenhouse gas footprint of our office buildings, manufacturing facilities and fleet by 2020. while we are committed to pursuing these sustainable solutions, there can be no assurance that our commitments will be successful, that our products will be accepted by the market, that proposed regulation or 11 table of contents deregulation will not have a negative competitive impact or that economic returns will match the investment that we are making in new product development. concerns regarding global climate change may result in more international, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate global warming and these regulations could mandate even more restrictive standards than the voluntary commitments that we have made or require such changes on a more accelerated timeframe. there continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. in addition, there are discussions regarding potential defunding of climate-related international agreements and/or initiatives that could affect our competitiveness in certain markets. such regulatory uncertainty extends to future incentives for energy efficient buildings and vehicles and costs of compliance, which may impact the demand for our products, obsolescence of our products and our results of operations. in addition, to the extent climate change influences weather patterns, such changes could also disrupt our operations by causing business interruptions or by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. these factors may impact our decisions to construct new facilities or maintain existing facilities in areas most prone to physical climate risks. some of the markets in which we operate are cyclical and seasonal and demand for our products and services could be adversely affected by downturns in these industries. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers fluctuates based on planned expansions, new builds, repairs, commodity prices, general economic conditions, availability of credit, inflation, interest rates, market forecasts, regulatory developments, trade policies, fiscal spending and sociopolitcal factors among others. our commercial and residential hvac businesses, which collectively represent 63% of our net revenues, provide products and services to a wide range of markets, including significant sales to the commercial and residential construction markets. weakness in either or both of these construction markets may negatively impact the demand for our products and services. demand for our commercial and residential hvac business is also influenced by weather conditions. for instance, sales in our commercial and residential hvac businesses historically tend to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. the results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect our business and impact overall results of operations. the business of many of our industrial customers, particularly oil and gas companies are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. during such economic downturns, customers in these industries historically have tended to delay major capital projects, maintenance projects and upgrades. decrease in the demand or our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. 12 table of contents our business strategy includes acquiring companies, entering into joint ventures and making investments that complement our existing businesses. we may not identify acquisition or joint venture candidates at the same rate as the past. acquisitions, joint ventures and investments that we identify could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses and product lines, joint ventures and investments with the potential to strengthen our industry position, enhance our existing set of product and services offerings or grow revenues, earnings and cash flow. there can be no assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable candidates in the future, that we will consummate these transactions at rates similar to the past or that completed transactions will be successful. acquisitions, joint ventures and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. such transactions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of either acquired businesses or our business; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired businesses; dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities; and in the case of joint ventures and other investments, interests that diverge from those of our partners without the ability to direct the management and operations of the joint venture or investment in the manner we believe most appropriate. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions, joint ventures or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as such transactions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. our operations are subject to regulatory risks. our u.s. and non-u.s. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including among others, laws related to the environment and health and safety. we have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. any violations of applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions. changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. the u.s. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to u.s. companies that reincorporate outside of the u.s. or have reincorporated outside of the u.s or may take other actions negatively impacting such companies. if we are unable to effectively respond to changes to applicable laws and regulations, interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. risks relating to our past spin-off transaction in december 2013, we completed the spin-off of our former commercial and residential security businesses to our shareholders (the spin-off) pursuant to which each shareholder as of the record date for the spin-off received one ordinary share of allegion plc (allegion) for every three ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shares. allegion is now an independent public company. this spin-off exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the spin-off and subsequent to the spin-off will be realized. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders as of the time of the distribution that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or allegion could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we received a ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of allegion plc's ordinary shares, together with certain related transactions, will qualify for tax-free treatment under sections 355 13 table of contents and 368(a) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code), with the result that we and our shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares (the irs ruling). the irs ruling also provides that specified internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition, we received opinions from the law firm of simpson thacher &amp; bartlett llp substantially to the effect that specified requirements, including certain requirements that the irs will not rule on, necessary to obtain tax-free treatment have been satisfied, such that the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes and certain other matters relating to the distribution, including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution, will receive tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the irs ruling and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the irs ruling and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in shares or asset ownership after the distribution. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser's best legal judgment and is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. in addition, the opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution, and/or internal transactions, ultimately is determined to be taxable, we or allegion could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities, which could cause a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. furthermore, if, notwithstanding receipt of the irs ruling and opinions, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each shareholder subject to u.s. federal income tax who received shares of allegion in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the allegion shares received. that distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of our then-current and accumulated earnings and profits. any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the applicable shareholder's tax basis in our ordinary shares with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. under the terms of the tax matters agreement between us and allegion executed in connection with the spin-off, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us or allegion, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or allegion as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us or allegion, then allegion would be responsible for any taxes imposed on us or allegion as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. if allegion were to default in its obligation to us to pay such taxes, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of tax liabilities. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. if the distribution is determined to be taxable for irish tax purposes, significant irish tax liabilities may arise. we received an opinion of the irish revenue regarding the irish tax consequences of the distribution to the effect that certain reliefs and exemptions for corporate reorganizations apply. in addition to obtaining the opinion from irish revenue, we also received opinions from the law firm of arthur cox confirming the applicability of the relevant exemptions and reliefs to the distribution as well as received opinions from other external advisers that certain internal transactions will not trigger irish tax costs as well. these opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the opinions, irish revenue could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions do not qualify for the relevant exemptions or reliefs if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser's best legal judgment and is not binding on irish revenue or the courts and irish revenue or the courts may not agree with the legal opinion. in addition, the legal opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution ultimately is determined not to fall within certain exemptions or reliefs, the distribution could result in certain of our shareholders having an irish tax liability as a result of the distribution, or we or allegion could incur irish tax liabilities. to the extent we are responsible for any such liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. risks relating to our operations and corporate structure our corporate structure has resulted from prior corporate reorganizations and related transactions, including our corporate reorganization in december 2001 to become a bermuda company (the bermuda reorganization) and subsequent corporate reorganization in july 2009 to become an irish public limited company. these various transactions exposed us and our shareholders 14 table of contents to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of our operations and corporate structure will be realized. changes in tax or other laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under u.s. or non-u.s. laws or adverse determinations by taxing or other governmental authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. the realization of any tax benefit related to our operations and corporate structure could be impacted by changes in tax or other laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. or non-u.s. tax or other governmental authorities. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted or implemented could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for instance, certain u.s. legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident for u.s. tax purposes, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our operations and corporate structure. there are other u.s. legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. in addition, other u.s. legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our u.s. subsidiaries to our non-u.s. affiliates, which could increase our tax liability. in addition, there are current proposals and active discussions regarding fundamental changes to the u.s. tax law; for example, repatriation of non-u.s. earnings with respect to which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. moreover, the organization for economic co-operation and development has released proposals to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting, such that tax laws in countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely impact us. finally, the european commission has been very active in investigating whether various tax regimes or private tax rulings provided by a country to particular taxpayers may constitute state aid. we cannot predict the outcome of any of these potential changes or investigations in any of the jurisdictions, but if any of the above occurs and impacts us, this could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. while we monitor proposals and other developments that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals or regulatory changes are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax or other laws is challenged and determined to be incorrect. in particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the ireland reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation. while our u.s. operations are subject to u.s. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-u.s. operations are generally not subject to u.s. tax other than withholding taxes. the irs or a court, however, may not concur with our conclusions including our determination that we, and a significant number of our foreign subsidiaries, are not controlled foreign corporations (cfc) within the meaning of the u.s. tax laws. a contrary determination, which could also arise through significant future acquisitions of our stock by u.s. persons, could also potentially cause u.s. holders (direct, indirect or constructive owners) of 10% or more of our stock (or the voting stock of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) to include in their gross income their pro rata share of certain of our and our non-u.s. subsidiary income for the period during which we (and our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc. in addition, gain (or a portion of such gain) realized on cfc shares sold by such shareholders may be treated as ordinary income depending on certain facts. treatment of us or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries as a cfc could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our operations and corporate structure could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on u.s. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the 15 table of contents company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. in addition, irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. also, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. under irish law, we must have authority from our shareholders to issue any shares, including shares that are part of the company's authorized but unissued share capital. in addition, unless otherwise authorized by its shareholders, when an irish company issues shares for cash to new shareholders, it is required first to offer those shares on the same or more favorable terms to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis. if we are unable to obtain these authorizations from our shareholders, or are otherwise limited by the terms of our authorizations, our ability to issue shares or otherwise raise capital could be adversely affected. dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, we are required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. in the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the united states will not be subject to irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain irish dividend withholding tax forms. however, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ingersoll-rand plc. our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ingersoll-rand plc. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties as of december 31, 2016 , we owned or leased a total of approximately 31 million square feet of space worldwide. manufacturing and assembly operations are conducted in 51 plants across the world. we also maintain various warehouses, offices and repair centers throughout the world. the majority of our plant facilities are owned by us with the remainder under long-term lease arrangements. we believe that our plants have been well maintained, are generally in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. 16 table of contents the locations by segment of our principal plant facilities at december 31, 2016 were as follows: climate americas europe asia pacific and india curitiba, brazil kolin, czech republic zhong shan, china monterrey, mexico charmes, france taicang, china arecibo, puerto rico golbey, france bangkok, thailand fort smith, arkansas * galway, ireland penang, malaysia pueblo, colorado barcelona, spain lynn haven, florida essen, germany macon, georgia vidalia, georgia rushville, indiana lexington, kentucky st. paul, minnesota hastings, nebraska trenton, new jersey columbia, south carolina clarksville, tennessee tyler, texas waco, texas la crosse, wisconsin charlotte, north carolina * the fort smith, arkansas location has two plants. industrial americas europe asia pacific and india dorval, canada unicov, czech republic changzhou, china augusta, georgia sin le noble, france guilin, china campbellsville, kentucky wasquehal, france nanjing, china mocksville, north carolina oberhausen, germany wujiang, china southern pines, north carolina fogliano redipuglia, italy naroda, india west chester, pennsylvania vignate, italy sahibabad, india kent, washington logatec, slovenia buffalo, new york item 3. legal proceedings in the normal course of business, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, including commercial and contract disputes, employment matters, product liability and product defect claims, asbestos-related claims, environmental liabilities, intellectual property disputes, and tax-related matters. in our opinion, pending legal matters are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. asbestos-related matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "contingent liabilities," and also note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 17 table of contents item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities information regarding the principal market for our ordinary shares and related shareholder matters is as follows: our ordinary shares are traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir. as of february 1, 2017 , the approximate number of record holders of ordinary shares was 3,451 . the high and low sales price per share and the dividend declared per share for the following periods were as follows: ordinary shares 2016 high low dividend first quarter $ 62.48 $ 47.08 $ 0.32 second quarter 67.48 59.10 0.32 third quarter 68.97 62.40 0.32 fourth quarter 79.21 63.87 0.40 2015 high low dividend first quarter $ 69.01 $ 60.15 $ 0.29 second quarter 70.93 65.47 0.29 third quarter 69.28 49.80 0.29 fourth quarter 60.43 49.74 0.29 future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the irish companies act 2014. under the irish companies act 2014, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits (so far as not previously distributed or capitalized) less its accumulated, realized losses (so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of its share capital) of ingersoll-rand plc. in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of ingersoll-rand plc are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of ingersoll-rand plc's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce ingersoll-rand plc's net assets below such aggregate. information regarding equity compensation plans required to be disclosed pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the annual general meeting of shareholders. 18 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the following table provides information with respect to purchases by us of our ordinary shares during the quarter ended december 31, 2016 : period total number of shares purchased (000's) (a) (b) average price paid per share (a) (b) total number of shares purchased as part of program (000's) (a) approximate dollar value of shares still available to be purchased under the program ($000's) (a) (c) october 1 - october 31 10.5 $ 67.72 $ 416,639 november 1 - november 30 0.1 75.56 $ 416,639 december 1 - december 31 34.4 75.38 $ 416,639 total 45.0 $ 73.59 (a) in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program, which began in april 2014. share repurchases will be made from time to time at the discretion of management subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other considerations. the repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date. (b) we may also reacquire shares outside of the repurchase program from time to time in connection with the surrender of shares to cover taxes on vesting of share based awards. we reacquired 10,474 shares in october, 83 shares in november and 34,354 shares in december in transactions outside the repurchase programs. (c) in february 2017, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the current share repurchase program. share repurchases will be made from time to time at the discretion of management subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other considerations. the repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date. the authorized shares under the new share repurchase program are not included in the approximate dollar value of shares still available to be purchased in the table above. 19 table of contents performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our ordinary shares with the cumulative total return on (i) the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and (ii) the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index for the five years ended december 31, 2016 . the graph assumes an investment of $100 in our ordinary shares, the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index on december 31, 2011 and assumes the reinvestment of dividends. company/index 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ingersoll rand 100 160 259 271 242 334 s&amp;p 500 100 116 153 174 176 197 s&amp;p 500 industrials index 100 115 161 177 173 205 20 table of contents item 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts: at and for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 net revenues $ 13,508.9 $ 13,300.7 $ 12,891.4 $ 12,350.5 $ 11,988.3 net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations 1,443.3 688.9 897.0 620.1 772.4 discontinued operations 32.9 (24.3 ) 34.7 (1.3 ) 246.2 total assets 17,397.4 16,717.6 17,274.6 17,641.5 18,475.2 total debt 4,070.2 4,217.8 4,200.5 3,504.6 3,222.5 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 6,643.8 5,816.7 5,987.4 7,068.9 7,147.8 earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic: continuing operations $ 5.57 $ 2.60 $ 3.32 $ 2.11 $ 2.54 discontinued operations 0.13 (0.09 ) 0.12 0.81 diluted: continuing operations $ 5.52 $ 2.57 $ 3.27 $ 2.08 $ 2.49 discontinued operations 0.13 (0.09 ) 0.13 (0.01 ) 0.79 dividends declared per ordinary share $ 1.36 $ 1.16 $ 1.00 $ 0.63 $ 0.69 1. 2012 dividends declared per ordinary share includes a dividend of $0.21 per ordinary share, declared in december 2012, and payable on march 28, 2013 to shareholders of record on march 12, 2013. 2. total assets and total debt for all periods presented were updated for the adoption of asu 2015-03. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statement for a discussion of recently adopted accounting pronouncements. 21 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this annual report. overview organization we are a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality, energy efficiency and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. our business segments consist of climate and industrial, both with strong brands and leading positions within their respective markets. we generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as ingersoll-rand , trane , thermo king , american standard , aro , and club car . to achieve our mission of being a world leader in creating comfortable, sustainable and efficient environments, we continue to focus on growth by increasing our recurring revenue stream from parts, service, controls, used equipment and rentals; and to continuously improve the efficiencies and capabilities of the products and services of our businesses. we also continue to focus on operational excellence strategies as a central theme to improving our earnings and cash flows. trends and economic events we are a global corporation with worldwide operations. as a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors, as well as political factors, wherever we operate or do business. our geographic and industry diversity, and the breadth of our product and services portfolios, have helped mitigate the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. given the broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the company. we monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. we regularly perform detailed evaluations of the different market segments we are serving to proactively detect trends and to adapt our strategies accordingly. in addition, we believe our order rates are indicative of future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. in those industry segments where we are a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. current economic conditions continue to show mixed trends in each of the segments in which we participate. heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (hvac) equipment replacement and aftermarket continue to experience strong demand. in addition, residential and commercial new construction have seen continued momentum in the united states which is positively impacting the results of our hvac businesses. however, non-residential markets in both europe and asia remain challenged and global industrial markets remain flat, with some positive signs in our shorter-cycle businesses. going forward, we expect moderate growth within our climate segment and continued soft markets in our industrial segment, each benefiting from operational excellence initiatives, new product launches and continued productivity programs. despite the current market environment, we believe we have a solid foundation of global brands and leading market shares in all of our major product lines. our growing geographic and industry diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service, parts and replacement revenue streams. in addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which we expect will drive our future growth. significant events 2016 dividend increase and share repurchase program in october 2016, we announced an increase in our quarterly share dividend from $0.32 to $0.40 per ordinary share. this reflects a 25% increase that began with our december 2016 payment. in february 2016, we increased our quarterly share dividend from $0.29 to $0.32 per ordinary share. in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program that began in april 2014. share repurchases are made from time to time at the discretion of management subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other considerations. since the program's inception, we have repurchased and settled 19.1 million shares for $ 1.1 billion . we have approximately $417 million remaining on the authorized plan. 22 table of contents in february 2017, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the current share repurchase program. share repurchases will be made from time to time at the discretion of management subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other considerations. sale of hussmann minority interest during 2011, we completed the sale of a controlling interest of our hussmann refrigerated display case business (hussmann) to a newly-formed affiliate (hussmann parent) of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). per the terms of the agreement, cd&amp;r's ownership interest in hussmann at the acquisition date was 60% with the remaining 40% being retained by us. as a result, we accounted for our interest in hussmann using the equity method of accounting. on december 21, 2015, we announced we would sell our remaining equity interest in hussmann as part of a transaction in which panasonic corporation would acquire 100 percent of hussmann's outstanding shares. the transaction was completed on april 1, 2016. we received net proceeds of $422.5 million , including closing settlement amounts, for our interest and recognized a gain of $397.8 million on the sale. irs exam results in july 2015, we entered into an agreement with the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) to resolve disputes related to withholding and income taxes for years 2002 through 2011 (the irs agreement). the irs had previously disagreed with our tax treatment of intercompany debt and distributions and asserted we owed income and withholding tax relating to the 2002-2006 period totaling $774 million, not including interest and penalties. we also provided a substantial amount of information to the irs in connection with its audit of the 2007-2011 tax periods. we expected the irs to propose similar adjustments to these periods, although it was not known how the irs would apply its position to the different facts presented in these years or whether the irs would take a similar position to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years. the resolution reached in july 2015 covered intercompany debt and related issues for the entire period from 2002 through 2011 and includes all aspects of the dispute with the u.s. tax court, the appeals division and the examination division of the irs. the resolution was subsequently reported to the congressional joint committee on taxation (jct), as required, for its review. the jct concluded its review without objection in december 2015 and the settlement was finalized with the irs in december 2015. pursuant to the agreement with the irs, we agreed to pay withholding tax and interest of $412 million in respect to the 2002-2006 years. we owed no additional tax with respect to intercompany debt and related matters for the years 2007-2011. no penalties were applied to any of the tax years 2002 through 2011. the resolution resulted in a net cash outflow in 2015 of approximately $ 364 million , consisting of $230 million in tax and $134 million of interest, net of a tax benefit of $48 million. acquisitions on january 1, 2015, we completed the acquisition of the assets of cameron international corporation's centrifugal compression (engineered centrifugal compression) business for approximately $ 850 million . the acquired business manufactures centrifugal compression equipment and provides aftermarket parts and services for global industrial applications, air separation, gas transmission and process gas. the acquisition was funded through a combination of cash on hand and debt. the results of the engineered centrifugal compression business have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition and reported within our industrial segment. on march 4, 2015, we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of frigoblock for approximately 100 million (approximately $113 million). the acquisition was funded through a combination of cash on hand and debt. the acquired business manufactures and designs transport refrigeration units for trucks and trailers, which it sells primarily in western europe. the results of the frigoblock business have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition and reported within our climate segment. 23 table of contents results of operations our climate segment globally delivers energy-efficient products and innovative energy services. it includes trane and american standard heating &amp; air conditioning which provide heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) systems, and commercial and residential building services, parts, support and controls; energy services and building automation through trane building advantage and nexia; and thermo king transport temperature control solutions. our industrial segment delivers products and services that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. it includes compressed air and gas systems and services, power tools, material handling systems, aro fluid management equipment, as well as club car golf, utility and consumer low-speed vehicles. segment operating income is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate the financial performance of the business and as the basis for performance reviews, compensation and resource allocation. for these reasons, we believe that segment operating income represents the most relevant measure of segment profit and loss. we define segment operating margin as segment operating income as a percentage of net revenues . year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 dollar amounts in millions 2016 2015 period change 2016 % of revenues 2015 % of revenues net revenues $ 13,508.9 $ 13,300.7 $ 208.2 cost of goods sold (9,329.3 ) (9,301.6 ) (27.7 ) 69.1% 69.9% selling and administrative expenses (2,606.5 ) (2,541.1 ) (65.4 ) 19.3% 19.1% operating income 1,573.1 1,458.0 115.1 11.6% 11.0% interest expense (221.5 ) (223.0 ) 1.5 other income/(expense), net 389.7 12.9 376.8 earnings before income taxes 1,741.3 1,247.9 493.4 provision for income taxes (281.5 ) (540.8 ) 259.3 earnings from continuing operations 1,459.8 707.1 752.7 gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 32.9 (24.3 ) 57.2 net earnings $ 1,492.7 $ 682.8 $ 809.9 net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016 increased by 1.6% , or $208.2 million , compared with the same period of 2015. the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix 2.2 % acquisitions 0.1 % pricing 0.3 % currency translation (1.0 )% total 1.6 % the increase was primarily driven by higher volumes in our climate segment. improved pricing, along with incremental revenues from acquisitions, further contributed to the year-over-year increase. these amounts were partially offset by lower volumes in our industrial segment and overall unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. our revenues by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2016 2015 % change climate $ 10,545.0 $ 10,224.3 3.1% industrial 2,963.9 3,076.4 (3.7)% total $ 13,508.9 $ 13,300.7 24 table of contents climate net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016 increased by 3.1% or $ 320.7 million , compared with the same period of 2015 the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix 3.8 % acquisitions 0.1 % pricing 0.2 % currency translation (1.0 )% total 3.1 % the primary driver of the increase related to incremental volumes in both the commercial hvac and residential hvac businesses. commercial hvac results reflect continued improvements in equipment, parts and service while residential hvac results increased with strong order growth and improved pricing. in addition, revenues associated with acquisitions added incremental volume during the current period. improvements in price across the majority of our businesses further contributed to segment results. however, overall revenue improvements were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. industrial net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016 decreased by 3.7% or $ 112.5 million , compared with the same period of 2015. the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix (3.2 )% acquisitions 0.1 % pricing 0.6 % currency translation (1.2 )% total (3.7 )% the primary driver of the decrease related to lower overall volumes in the majority of our businesses due to continued weakness in the industrial markets. segment results were also negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. however, the decline was partially offset by improvements in pricing within the majority of our businesses as well as incremental revenue provided by acquisitions. operating income/margin operating margin improved to 11.6% for the year ended december 31, 2016, compared to 11.0% for the same period of 2015. the increase was primarily the result of pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.7%), favorable volume and product mix (0.2%), non-recurrence of acquisition related step-up amortization (0.1%) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.1%) . these amounts were partially offset by a combination of investment and restructuring spending (0.3%), capitalized costs related to new product engineering and development that were reclassified to the income statement (0.1%) and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements (0.1%). our operating income and operating margin by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2016 operating income (expense) 2015 operating income (expense) period change 2016 operating margin 2015 operating margin climate $ 1,527.4 $ 1,302.5 $ 224.9 14.5 % 12.7 % industrial 294.9 372.4 (77.5 ) 10.0 % 12.1 % unallocated corporate expense (249.2 ) (216.9 ) (32.3 ) n/a n/a total $ 1,573.1 $ 1,458.0 $ 115.1 11.6 % 11.0 % climate operating margin improved to 14.5% for the year ended december 31, 2016, compared to 12.7% for the same period of 2015. the improvement was primarily the result of pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.7%), favorable volume and product mix (0.7%) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.6%). these amounts were partially offset by increased investment and restructuring spending (0.2%). 25 table of contents industrial operating margin decreased to 10.0% for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to 12.1% for the same period of 2015. the decrease was primarily due to unfavorable volume and product mix (2.1%), increased investment and restructuring spending (0.4%), decreased productivity in excess of other inflation (0.3%), capitalized costs related to new product engineering and development that were reclassified to the income statement (0.3%), and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements (0.2%). these amounts were partially offset by non-recurrence of acquisition related step-up amortization (0.6%) and pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.6%). unallocated corporate expense unallocated corporate expense for the year ended december 31, 2016 increased by 14.9% or $ 32.3 million , compared with the same period of 2015. the increase in expenses primarily relates to higher compensation and benefit charges related to variable compensation during 2016. in addition, higher restructuring charges impacted the current period. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2016 decreased by $ 1.5 million compared with the same period of 2015. the decrease relates primarily to changes in short term financing arrangements and other items. other income/(expense), net the components of other income/(expense), net , for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2016 2015 period change interest income $ 8.0 $ 10.6 $ (2.6 ) foreign exchange gain (loss) (2.0 ) (36.2 ) 34.2 income (loss) from hussmann equity investment (0.8 ) 12.6 (13.4 ) gain on sale of hussmann equity investment 397.8 397.8 other activity, net (13.3 ) 25.9 (39.2 ) other income/(expense), net $ 389.7 $ 12.9 $ 376.8 during the year ended december 31, 2015, we recognized a loss on foreign currency exchange of $36.2 million. this loss is comprised of a $42.6 million pre-tax charge recorded in the first quarter related to the remeasurement of net monetary assets denominated in venezuelan bolivar. this loss was partially offset by $6.4 million of foreign currency transaction gains resulting from the remeasurement of non-functional balance sheet positions into their functional currency. other activity, net in each period presented, primarily consists of insurance settlements on asbestos related matters and the revaluation of asbestos recoveries. in addition, other activity, net for the year ended december 31, 2016 includes a charge of $16.4 million for the settlement of a lawsuit originally filed by a customer in 2012. the lawsuit related to a commercial hvac contract entered into in 2001, prior to our acquisition of trane u.s. inc. (trane). the charge represents the settlement and related legal costs recognized during the fourth quarter of 2016. provision for income taxes the 2016 effective tax rate was 16.2% which is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the tax treatment of the hussmann gain. the gain, which is not subject to tax under the relevant local tax laws, decreased the effective tax rate by 4.8%. in addition, the reduction was also driven by earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate, have a lower effective tax rate. revenues from non-u.s. jurisdictions account for approximately 35% of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income is earned and taxed outside the u.s. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. when comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between u.s. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability on our overall effective tax rate. the 2015 effective tax rate was 43.3% which is higher than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the $227 million charge taken to settle the irs agreement, which increased our effective tax rate by 18.1%. this effect was partially offset by a $65 million benefit from the settlement of an audit in a major tax jurisdiction, less a tax charge of $52 million from a change in permanent reinvestment assertions on earnings from certain of our subsidiaries in non-u.s. jurisdictions. 26 table of contents discontinued operations the components of gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2016 2015 period change pre-tax earnings (loss) from discontinued operations 28.1 (23.2 ) 51.3 tax benefit (expense) 4.8 (1.1 ) 5.9 gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $ 32.9 $ (24.3 ) $ 57.2 discontinued operations for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 are primarily related to postretirement benefits, product liability, worker's compensation, tax and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related) from previously sold businesses. in addition, we include amounts related to the 2013 spin-off of our commercial and residential security business, now an independent public company operating under the name of allegion plc (allegion). pre-tax earnings from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2016 includes income realized from settlements with insurance carriers related to asbestos policies. amounts related to allegion in both periods primarily represent adjustments for certain tax matters. year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 dollar amounts in millions 2015 2014 period change 2015 % of revenues 2014 % of revenues net revenues $ 13,300.7 $ 12,891.4 $ 409.3 cost of goods sold (9,301.6 ) (8,982.8 ) (318.8 ) 69.9% 69.8% selling and administrative expenses (2,541.1 ) (2,503.9 ) (37.2 ) 19.1% 19.4% operating income 1,458.0 1,404.7 53.3 11.0% 10.9% interest expense (223.0 ) (225.3 ) 2.3 other income/(expense), net 12.9 30.0 (17.1 ) earnings before income taxes 1,247.9 1,209.4 38.5 provision for income taxes (540.8 ) (293.7 ) (247.1 ) earnings from continuing operations 707.1 915.7 (208.6 ) gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (24.3 ) 34.7 (59.0 ) net earnings $ 682.8 $ 950.4 $ (267.6 ) net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015 increased by 3.2% , or $409.3 million , compared with the same period of 2014, which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 4.5 % acquisitions 2.4 % pricing 0.2 % currency translation (3.9 )% total 3.2 % the increase was primarily driven by higher volumes in our climate segment. in addition, improved pricing and incremental revenues associated with acquisitions within each segment contributed to the year-over-year increase. these amounts were partially offset by lower volumes in our industrial segment and overall unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. our revenues by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2015 2014 % change climate $ 10,224.3 $ 9,879.7 3.5% industrial 3,076.4 3,011.7 2.1% total $ 13,300.7 $ 12,891.4 27 table of contents climate net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015 increased by 3.5% or $ 344.6 million , compared with the same period of 2014. the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix 6.4 % acquisitions 0.4 % pricing 0.1 % currency translation (3.4 )% total 3.5 % the primary driver of the increase related to higher volumes in both the commercial hvac and residential hvac businesses. commercial hvac results reflect continued improvements in equipment, parts and services while residential hvac results increased through moderate market growth. in addition, revenues in our thermo king refrigeration transport business improved through organic growth in north america and europe. revenues associated with acquisitions added incremental volume during the current period. however, these improvements were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. industrial net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015 increased by 2.1% , or $ 64.7 million , compared with the same period of 2014. the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix (1.6 )% acquisitions 8.9 % pricing 0.4 % currency translation (5.6 )% total 2.1 % the primary driver of the increase related to the acquisition of the engineered centrifugal compression business during the year. in addition, club car revenues increased as a result of gains in golf cars, utility vehicles and aftermarket sales. however, overall organic revenues decreased due to weak industrial markets. segment results were also negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. operating income/margin operating margin improved to 11.0% for the year ended december 31, 2015 , compared to 10.9% for the same period of 2014. the increase was primarily due to productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.9%), pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.3%) and favorable product mix and volume (0.3%). these amounts were partially offset by increased investment and restructuring spending (0.5%), unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements (0.5%), primarily from the euro, and the inclusion of the engineered centrifugal compression business and related step-up amortization (0.4%). our operating income and operating margin by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2015 operating income (expense) 2014 operating income (expense) period change 2015 operating margin 2014 operating margin climate $ 1,302.5 $ 1,195.6 $ 106.9 12.7 % 12.1 % industrial 372.4 443.0 (70.6 ) 12.1 % 14.7 % unallocated corporate expense (216.9 ) (233.9 ) $ 17.0 n/a n/a total $ 1,458.0 $ 1,404.7 $ 53.3 11.0 % 10.9 % climate operating margin improved to 12.7% for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to 12.1% for the same period of 2014. the improvement was primarily due to favorable product mix and volume (0.7%) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.5%). these amounts were partially offset by increased investment spending (0.3%) and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements (0.3%), primarily from the euro. 28 table of contents industrial operating margin decreased to 12.1% for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to 14.7% for the same period of 2014. the decrease was primarily due to the inclusion of the engineered centrifugal compression business and related step-up amortization (1.9%), unfavorable volume/product mix (1.4%), increased investment and restructuring spending (0.9%) and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements (0.8%). these amounts were partially offset by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (1.8%) and pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.6%). unallocated corporate expense unallocated corporate expense for the year ended december 31, 2015 decreased by 7.3% or $17.0 million, compared with the same period of 2014 primarily due to lower professional expenses. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2015 increased by $ 2.3 million compared with the same period of 2014, primarily as a result of higher average debt balances during 2015, partially offset by a lower weighted-average interest rate during the period. other income/(expense), net the components of other income/(expense), net , for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2015 2014 period change interest income $ 10.6 $ 13.2 $ (2.6 ) foreign exchange gain (loss) (36.2 ) (0.1 ) (36.1 ) income (loss) from hussmann equity investment 12.6 7.8 4.8 other activity, net 25.9 9.1 16.8 other income/(expense), net $ 12.9 $ 30.0 $ (17.1 ) during the year ended december 31, 2015, we recognized a loss on foreign currency exchange of $36.2 million. this loss is comprised of a $42.6 million pre-tax charge recorded in the first quarter related to the remeasurement of net monetary assets denominated in venezuelan bolivar. this loss was partially offset by $6.4 million of foreign currency transaction gains resulting from the remeasurement of non-functional balance sheet positions into their functional currency. other activity, net in each period presented, primarily consists of insurance settlements on asbestos-related matters and the revaluation of asbestos recoveries. in addition, other activity, net for the year ended december 31, 2014 includes a $ 6.0 million gain on the sale of an investment. provision for income taxes the 2015 effective tax rate was 43.3% which is higher than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the $227 million charge taken to settle the irs agreement, which increased our effective tax rate by 18.1%. this effect was partially offset by a $65 million benefit from the settlement of an audit in a major tax jurisdiction, less a tax charge of $52 million from a change in permanent reinvestment assertions on earnings from certain of our subsidiaries in non-u.s. jurisdictions. the 2014 effective tax rate was 24.3%. the 2014 effective tax rate is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate have a lower effective rate partially offset by u.s. state and local income taxes and u.s. tax on non-u.s. earnings. discontinued operations the components of gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2015 2014 period change pre-tax earnings (loss) from discontinued operations (23.2 ) 41.2 (64.4 ) tax benefit (expense) (1.1 ) (6.5 ) 5.4 gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (24.3 ) $ 34.7 $ (59.0 ) discontinued operations for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 are primarily related to postretirement benefits, product liability, worker's compensation, tax and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related) from previously sold businesses. in addition, we include amounts related to the 2013 spin-off of our commercial and residential security business, now an independent public company operating under the name of allegion. amounts related to allegion in both periods primarily represent adjustments for 29 table of contents certain tax matters. pre-tax earnings (loss) from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2014 includes income realized from a settlement with an insurance carrier related to asbestos policies. liquidity and capital resources we assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. in doing so, we review and analyze our current cash on hand, the number of days our sales are outstanding, inventory turns, capital expenditure commitments and income tax payments. our cash requirements primarily consist of the following: funding of working capital funding of capital expenditures debt service requirements our primary sources of liquidity include cash balances on hand, cash flows from operations, proceeds from debt offerings, commercial paper, and borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities. we earn a significant amount of our operating income in jurisdictions where it is deemed to be permanently reinvested. our most prominent jurisdiction of operation is the u.s. we expect existing cash and cash equivalents available to the u.s., the cash generated by our u.s. operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital and debt markets will be sufficient to fund our u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. in addition, we expect existing non-u.s. cash and cash equivalents and the cash generated by our non-u.s. operations will be sufficient to fund our non-u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. as of december 31, 2016 , we had $1,714.7 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, of which $980.4 million was held by non-u.s. subsidiaries. cash and cash equivalents held by our non-u.s. subsidiaries are either generally available for use in our u.s. operations via intercompany loans or equity infusions or we intend to permanently reinvest them in our non-u.s. operations. we currently have no plans to repatriate permanently reinvested funds to fund our u.s. operations. however, if we decided to repatriate such funds to our u.s. operations, we would be required to accrue and pay applicable u.s. (and non-u.s.) taxes. in october 2016, we announced an increase in our quarterly share dividend from $0.32 to $0.40 per ordinary share. this reflects a 25% increase that began with our december 2016 payment. in february 2016, we increased our quarterly share dividend from $0.29 to $0.32 per ordinary share. in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program that began in april 2014. share repurchases are made from time to time at the discretion of management subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other considerations. since the program's inception, we have repurchased and settled 19.1 million shares for $ 1.1 billion . we have approximately $417 million remaining on the authorized plan. in february 2017, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the current share repurchase program. share repurchases will be made from time to time at the discretion of management subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other considerations. we expect our available cash flow, committed credit lines and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to fund the increased dividend and share repurchases. liquidity the following table contains several key measures of our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended december 31: in millions 2016 2015 2014 cash and cash equivalents $ 1,714.7 $ 736.8 $ 1,705.2 short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt 360.8 504.2 482.7 long-term debt 3,709.4 3,713.6 3,717.8 total debt 4,070.2 4,217.8 4,200.5 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 6,643.8 5,816.7 5,987.4 total equity 6,718.3 5,879.2 6,045.4 debt-to-total capital ratio 37.7 % 41.8 % 41.0 % debt and credit facilities our short-term obligations primarily consists of current maturities of long-term debt. in addition, we have outstanding $343.0 million of fixed rate debentures that contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. if exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder's option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. we also maintain a commercial paper program which has been used for general corporate purposes. under the program, the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available 30 table of contents to be issued, on a private placement basis, is $2 billion as of december 31, 2016 . we had no commercial paper outstanding at december 31, 2016 . for additional information regarding the terms of our short-term obligations, see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. our long-term obligations primarily consist of long-term debt with final maturity dates ranging between 2018 and 2044. in addition, we maintain two 5-year, $1.0 billion revolving credit facilities. each senior unsecured credit facility, one of which matures in march 2019 and the other in march 2021, provides support for our commercial paper program and can be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. total commitments of $ 2.0 billion were unused at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 . for additional information regarding the terms of our long-term obligations and their related guarantees, see note 7 and note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. pension plans our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. we seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contribution and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. our approach to asset allocation is to increase fixed income assets as the plan's funded status improves. we monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. none of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to the volatility in the markets. for further details on pension plan activity, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. cash flows the following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended december 31, respectively. for additional details, please see the consolidated statements of cash flows in the consolidated financial statements. in millions 2016 2015 2014 net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities $ 1,411.3 $ 886.2 $ 991.7 net cash provided by (used in) continuing investing activities 240.1 (1,192.9 ) (197.0 ) net cash provided by (used in) continuing financing activities (705.2 ) (490.3 ) (859.5 ) operating activities net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 was $1,411.3 million , of which net income provided $1,449.8 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. changes in assets and liabilities, net used $38.5 million . improvements in accounts payable were offset by higher accounts receivable balances. net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 was $886.2 million , of which net income provided $1,228.9 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. changes in assets and liabilities, net used $342.7 million which was primarily driven by the net cash outflow for the irs agreement of approximately $364 million and higher working capital balances. net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 was $991.7 million , of which net income provided $1,213.0 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. changes in assets and liabilities, net used $221.3 million which was primarily driven by increases in working capital amounts. operating cash flow improvements are a result of improved earnings and our continued focus on working capital management. investing activities cash flows from investing activities represents inflows and outflows regarding the purchase and sale of assets. primary activities associated with these items include capital expenditures, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment, acquisitions and divestitures. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , net cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations was $240.1 million . the primary driver of the balance is attributable to the proceeds of $422.5 million received from the sale of our hussmann equity interest during the year. this amount was partially offset by capital expenditures during the year. net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations for the year ended december 31, 2015 was $1,192.9 million . the primary driver of the outflow related to the acquisition of the engineered centrifugal compression business for approximately $850 million and the acquisition of frigoblock for approximately 100 million (approximately $113 million). in addition, capital expenditures contributed to the outflow during the year. net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations for the year ended december 31, 2014 was $197.0 million and primarily related to capital expenditures. financing activities cash flows from financing activities represent inflows and outflows that account for external activities affecting equity and debt. primary activities associated with these actions include paying dividends to shareholders, repurchasing our own shares, issuing 31 table of contents our stock and debt transactions. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $705.2 million . primary drivers of the cash outflow includes dividends paid to ordinary shareholders and the repurchase of 4.9 million ordinary shares. in addition, we repaid our outstanding commercial paper balance. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $490.3 million . primary drivers of the cash outflow includes dividends paid to ordinary shareholders and the repurchase of 4.4 million ordinary shares. during the year ended december 31, 2014 , net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $859.5 million . primary drivers of the cash outflow includes dividends paid to ordinary shareholders and the repurchase of 23.0 million ordinary shares. these amounts were partially offset by the net proceeds from the issuance of debt. discontinued operations cash flows from discontinued operations primarily represent costs associated with postretirement benefits, product liability, worker's compensation and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related) from previously sold businesses. net cash provided by discontinued operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2016 was $88.9 million and included settlements reached with various insurance carriers related to asbestos matters during the year. net cash used in discontinued operating activities for the years ended december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 relate to ongoing costs from previously sold businesses. capital resources based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchase programs, upcoming debt maturities, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future. capital expenditures were $ 182.7 million , $ 249.6 million and $ 233.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs, provide environmental enhancements, upgrade information technology infrastructure and security and advanced technologies for existing facilities. the capital expenditure program for 2017 is estimated to be approximately $250 million, including amounts approved in prior periods. many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges. for financial market risk impacting the company, see item 7a. "quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk." capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper program. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2016 , our credit ratings were as follows: short-term long-term moody's p-2 baa2 standard and poor's a-2 bbb the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2016 , our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. 32 table of contents contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment period: in millions less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total short-term debt $ 10.1 $ $ $ $ 10.1 long-term debt 350.7 (a) 1,115.4 440.1 2,179.7 $ 4,085.9 interest payments on long-term debt 207.8 (b) 355.6 274.9 1,206.2 2,044.5 purchase obligations 788.0 788.0 operating leases 152.9 197.5 112.3 46.2 508.9 total contractual cash obligations $ 1,509.5 $ 1,668.5 $ 827.3 $ 3,432.1 $ 7,437.4 (a) includes $343.0 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. (b) includes nominal amount related to interest of short-term debt. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. pensions at december 31, 2016 , we had net obligations of $ 734.8 million , which consist of noncurrent pension assets of $ 19.2 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $ 754.0 million . it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $ 97.5 million to our plans worldwide in 2017 . the timing and amounts of future contributions are dependent upon the funding status of the plan, which is expected to vary as a result of changes in interest rates, returns on underlying assets, and other factors. therefore, pension contributions have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2016 , we had postretirement benefit obligations of $ 578.6 million . we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $ 54.2 million in 2017 . because benefit payments are not required to be funded in advance, and the timing and amounts of future payments are dependent on the cost of benefits for retirees covered by the plan, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. income taxes at december 31, 2016 , we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $ 107.1 million and $ 33.7 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding matters relating to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits. contingent liabilities we are involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. see note 7 and note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on matters affecting our liquidity. critical accounting policies management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states (gaap). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that 33 table of contents are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from estimates. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. allowance for doubtful accounts we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable which represents our best estimate of probable loss inherent in our accounts receivable portfolio. this estimate is based upon our two step policy that results in the total recorded allowance for doubtful accounts. the first step is to record a portfolio reserve based on the aging of the outstanding accounts receivable portfolio and our historical experience with our end markets, customer base and products. the second step is to create a specific reserve for significant accounts as to which the customer's ability to satisfy their financial obligation to us is in doubt due to circumstances such as bankruptcy, deteriorating operating results or financial position. in these circumstances, management uses its judgment to record an allowance based on the best estimate of probable loss, factoring in such considerations as the market value of collateral, if applicable. actual results could differ from those estimates. these estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically, and the effects of changes, if any, are reflected in the statement of operations in the period that they are determined. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level and begins with a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test included in u.s. gaap. for those reporting units where it is required, the first step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a second step is performed, wherein the reporting unit's carrying value of goodwill is compared to the implied fair value of goodwill. to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value, impairment exists and must be recognized. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value in step one is determined using three valuation techniques: a discounted cash flow model (an income approach), a market-adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (a market approach), and a similar transactions method (also a market approach). the discounted cash flow approach relies on our estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. the earnings and revenue multiple approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. the similar transactions method considers prices paid in transactions that have recently occurred in our industry or in related industries. these methods are weighted 50%, 40% and 10%, respectively. in the second step, the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, was the price paid to acquire that reporting unit. recoverability of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is first assessed using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. this assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset. for those indefinite-lived assets where it is required, a fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. the determination of the estimated fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. we developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. 34 table of contents for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2016, we calculated the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.5% to 13.5% and terminal growth rates ranging from 3.0% to 3.5%. under the guideline public company method, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 7.0 to 13.0 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 26%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 12.0%, terminal growth rate of 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 1.0% to 4.5%. for all tradenames, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 46%, with the exception of two recently acquired tradenames. the first tradename, reported within our climate segment, had an excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value of approximately 5% and an approximate carrying value of $15 million at december 31, 2016. the second tradename, reported within our industrial segment, had an excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value of approximately 4% and an approximate carrying value of $28 million at december 31, 2016. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. we believe that our use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. loss contingencies liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business, including litigation and administrative proceedings, environmental and asbestos matters and product liability, product warranty, worker's compensation and other claims. we have recorded reserves in the financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience data depending on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances with consultation of legal counsel, internal and external consultants and engineers. subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, we believe our estimated reserves are reasonable and do not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows for any year. asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. we record a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. asbestos related defense costs are excluded from the asbestos claims liability and are recorded separately as services are incurred. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. we record certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax, as they relate to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with trane u.s. inc.'s asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries which are recorded within continuing operations. refer to note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further details of asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized and earned when all of the following criteria are satisfied: (a) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; (b) the price is fixed or determinable; (c) collectability is reasonably assured; and (d) delivery has occurred or service has been rendered. delivery generally occurs when the title and the risks and rewards of ownership have substantially transferred to the customer. both the persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement and fixed or determinable price criteria are deemed to be satisfied upon receipt of an executed and legally binding sales agreement or contract that clearly defines the terms and conditions of the transaction including the respective obligations of the parties. if the defined terms and conditions allow variability in all or a component of the price, revenue is not recognized until such 35 table of contents time that the price becomes fixed or determinable. at the point of sale, we validate that existence of an enforceable claim that requires payment within a reasonable amount of time and assess the collectability of that claim. if collectability is not deemed to be reasonably assured, then revenue recognition is deferred until such time that collectability becomes probable or cash is received. delivery is not considered to have occurred until the customer has taken title and assumed the risks and rewards of ownership. service and installation revenue are recognized when earned. in some instances, customer acceptance provisions are included in sales arrangements to give the buyer the ability to ensure the delivered product or service meets the criteria established in the order. in these instances, revenue recognition is deferred until the acceptance terms specified in the arrangement are fulfilled through customer acceptance or a demonstration that established criteria have been satisfied. if uncertainty exists about customer acceptance, revenue is not recognized until acceptance has occurred. we offer various sales incentive programs to our customers, dealers, and distributors. sales incentive programs do not preclude revenue recognition, but do require an accrual for the company's best estimate of expected activity. examples of the sales incentives that are accrued for as a contra receivable and sales deduction at the point of sale include, but are not limited to, discounts (i.e. net 30 type), coupons, and rebates where the customer does not have to provide any additional requirements to receive the discount. sales returns and customer disputes involving a question of quantity or price are also accounted for as a reduction in revenue and a contra receivable. at december 31, 2016 and 2015, we had a customer claim accrual (contra receivable) of $3.7 million and $4.0 million , respectively. all other incentives or incentive programs where the customer is required to reach a certain sales level, remain a customer for a certain period of time, provide a rebate form or is subject to additional requirements are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and establishment of a liability. at december 31, 2016 and 2015, we had a sales incentive accrual of $87.5 million and $83.2 million , respectively. each of these accruals represents the best estimate we expect to pay related to previously sold units. these estimates are reviewed regularly for accuracy. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between our estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. we enter into maintenance and extended warranty contracts with customers. revenue related to these services is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, unless sufficient historical evidence indicates that the cost of providing these services is incurred on an other than straight-line basis. in these circumstances, revenue is recognized over the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing the service. we, primarily through our climate segment, provide equipment (e.g. hvac, controls), integrated solutions, and installation designed to customer specifications through construction-type contracts. the term of these types of contracts is typically less than one year, but can be as long as three years. revenues related to these contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with gaap. this measure of progress toward completion, utilized to recognize sales and profits, is based on the proportion of actual cost incurred to date as compared to the total estimate of contract costs at completion. the timing of revenue recognition often differs from the invoicing schedule to the customer, with revenue recognition in advance of customer invoicing recorded to unbilled accounts receivable and invoicing in advance of revenue recognition recorded to deferred revenue. at december 31, 2016 , all recorded receivables (billed and unbilled) are due within one year. we re-evaluate our contract estimates periodically and reflect changes in estimates in the current period using the cumulative catch-up method. these periodic reviews have not historically resulted in significant adjustments. if estimated contract costs are in excess of contract revenues, then the excess costs are accrued. we enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple elements, such as equipment, installation and service revenue. for multiple element arrangements, each element is evaluated to determine the separate units of accounting. the total arrangement consideration is then allocated to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling price at the inception of the arrangement. the relative selling price is determined using vendor specific objective evidence (vsoe) of selling price, if it exists; otherwise, third-party evidence (tpe) of selling price is used. if neither vsoe nor tpe of selling price exists for a deliverable, a best estimate of the selling price is developed for that deliverable. we primarily utilize vsoe to determine its relative selling price. we recognize revenue for delivered elements when the delivered item has stand-alone value to the customer, the basic revenue recognition criteria have been met, and only customary refund or return rights related to the delivered elements exist. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-u.s. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. we regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. we have certain deferred tax assets in brazil, primarily comprised of net operating loss carryfowards, with a tax effected value of approximately $32 million at december 31, 2016. the operating results of this business have experienced sharp 36 table of contents declines in 2016 and 2015 due to market slowdowns in brazil. we concluded that these deferred tax assets, which have an indefinite life, did not require a valuation allowance as of december 31, 2016 due to forecasted profitability and to-be implemented tax planning actions. however, further deterioration in operating results in this business may require us to recognize a valuation allowance in the future. the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. we will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. employee benefit plans we provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, employee mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with gaap. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. we review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan's investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of each measurement date. we believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the expected 2017 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $7.7 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by approximately $6.9 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would decrease expected 2017 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.9 million and a 1.0% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate would increase the service and interest cost by approximately $0.7 million. recent accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. many of our non-u.s. operations have a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar, and their results are translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes. therefore, our reported results will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the respective foreign currency. our largest concentration of revenues from non-u.s. operations as of december 31, 2016 are in euros and chinese yuan. a hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in the average exchange rate used to translate net revenues as of december 31, 2016 from either euros or chinese yuan-based operations into u.s. dollars would not have a material impact on our financial statements. we use derivative instruments to hedge those material exposures that cannot be naturally offset. the instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the 37 table of contents risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2016 , a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $ 81.0 million , as compared with $ 64.5 million at december 31, 2015 . these amounts, when realized, would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying transactions. commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2016 . interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations. 38 table of contentsrisk factors 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 39 additional geographic data is provided in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. customers we have no customer that accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenues in 2017 , 2016 or 2015 . no material part of our business is dependent upon a single customer or a small group of customers; therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. 5 table of contents raw materials we manufacture many of the components included in our products, which requires us to employ a wide variety of commodities. principal commodities, such as steel, copper and aluminum, are purchased from a large number of independent sources around the world. in the past, variability in prices for some commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, have caused margin pressure in some of our businesses. we have historically been able to adjust pricing with customers to maintain our margins; however, we may not always be able to offset these cost changes with price changes. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for the foreseeable future. there have been no commodity shortages which have had a material adverse effect on our businesses. however, significant changes in certain material costs may have an adverse impact on our costs and operating margins. to mitigate this potential impact, we enter into long-term supply contracts in order to manage our exposure to potential supply disruptions. working capital we manufacture products that must be readily available to meet our customers' rapid delivery requirements. therefore, we maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business needs and our customers' requirements. such working capital requirements are not, however, in the opinion of management, materially different from those experienced by our major competitors. we believe our sales and payment terms are competitive in and appropriate for the markets in which we compete. seasonality demand for certain of our products and services is influenced by weather conditions. for instance, sales in our commercial and residential hvac businesses historically tend to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because this represents summer in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, which is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unusual weather patterns or events could negatively or positively affect certain segments of our business and impact overall results of operations. research and development we engage in research and development activities in an effort to introduce new products, enhance existing product effectiveness, improve ease of use and reliability as well as expand the various applications for which our products may be appropriate. in addition, we continually evaluate developing technologies in areas that we believe will enhance our business for possible investment or acquisition. we anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development activities as we look to maintain and improve our competitive position. patents and licenses we own numerous patents and patent applications, and are licensed under others. although in aggregate we consider our patents and licenses to be valuable to our operations, we do not believe that our business is materially dependent on a single patent or license or any group of them. in our opinion, engineering, production skills and experience are more responsible for our market position than our patents and/or licenses. backlog our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at december 31 , was as follows: in millions 2017 2016 climate $ 1,972.4 $ 1,754.4 industrial 525.6 443.2 total $ 2,498.0 $ 2,197.6 these backlog figures are based on orders received. while the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision and deferral, and to a lesser extent cancellation or termination. we expect to ship substantially all of the december 31, 2017 backlog during 2018 . 6 table of contents environmental matters we continue to be dedicated to environmental and sustainability programs to minimize the use of natural resources, and reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials from our manufacturing processes and to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the environmental protection agency and similar state authorities. we have also been identified as a potentially responsible party (prp) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal superfund and state remediation sites. for all such sites, there are other prps and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal. in estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other prps who may be jointly and severally liable. the ability of other prps to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties' financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future. for a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. asbestos-related matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in many of the lawsuits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. see also the discussion under part i, item 3, "legal proceedings," and part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "contingent liabilities," as well as further detail in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. employees as of december 31, 2017 , we employed approximately 46,000 people throughout the world. available information we file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934. this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the board of directors of the company has also adopted and posted in the investor relations section of the company's website our corporate governance guidelines and charters for each of the board's standing committees. the contents of the company's website are not incorporated by reference in this report. 7 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following is a list of executive officers of the company as of february 12, 2018 . name and age date of service as an executive officer principal occupation and other information for past five years michael w. lamach (54) 2/16/2004 chairman of the board (since june 2010) and chief executive officer (since february 2010); president and chief operating officer (2009-2010); senior vice president and president, trane commercial systems (2008-2009); senior vice president and president, security technologies (2004-2008) susan k. carter (59) 10/2/2013 senior vice president and chief financial officer (since october 2013); executive vice president and chief financial officer, kbr inc. (a global engineering, construction and services business), (2009-2013); executive vice president and chief financial officer, lennox international inc. (a heating, air conditioning and refrigeration company), (2004 to 2009) david s. regnery (55) 9/5/2017 executive vice president (since september 2017); vice president, president of commercial hvac, north america and emea (2013 to 2017) marcia j. avedon (56) 2/7/2007 senior vice president, human resources, communications and corporate affairs (since june 2013); senior vice president, human resources and communications (2007 - 2013) paul a. camuti (56) 8/1/2011 senior vice president, innovation and chief technology officer (since august 2011); president, smart grid applications, siemens energy, inc. (an energy technology subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2010 -2011); president, research division, siemens corporation (a diversified global technology company) (2009 - 2010); president and chief executive officer, siemens corporate research, inc. (the research subsidiary of siemens corporation) (2005 - 2009) maria c. green (65) 11/2/2015 senior vice president and general counsel (since november 2015); senior vice president, general counsel and secretary, illinois tool works inc. (a global manufacturer of a diversified range of industrial products and equipment), (2012-2015); vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary, illinois tool works inc. (2011-2012) keith a. sultana (48) 10/12/2015 senior vice president, global operations and integrated supply chain (since october 2015); vice president, global procurement (january 2015 to october 2015); vice president, global integrated supply chain (gisc) for climate solutions (2010 to 2014) christopher j. kuehn (45) 6/1/2015 vice president and chief accounting officer (since june 2015); vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer , whirlpool corporation (a global manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances), (2012-2015); vice president, global cfo thermal equipment and services segment, spx corporation (a global supplier of infrastructure equipment platforms in heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac)), (2008-2012) no family relationship exists between any of the above-listed executive officers of the company. all officers are elected to hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. 8 table of contents item 1a . risk factors our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks set forth below are those we consider most significant. we face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material which could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations. you should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. in that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. our global operations subject us to economic risks. our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the u.s. and internationally, including europe, china, brazil, middle east, africa, india, argentina, mexico and russia. these activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: changes in local laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints; limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries; trade protection measures such as import or export restrictions and requirements, the imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas or revocation or material modification of trade agreements; difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and recessions, economic downturns, slowing economic growth and social and political instability. these risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we face significant competition in the markets that we serve and our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services. the markets that we serve are highly competitive. we compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. there has been consolidation and new entrants (including non-traditional competitors) within our industries and there may be future consolidation and new entrants which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the competitive landscape in which we operate. due to our global footprint we are competing worldwide with large companies and with smaller, local operators who may have customer, regulatory or economic advantages in the geographies in which they are located. in addition, some of our competitors may employ pricing and other strategies that are not traditional. in addition, we must develop and commercialize new products and services in a rapidly changing technological and business environment in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. the development and commercialization of new products and services require a significant investment of resources and an anticipation of the impact of new technologies and the ability to compete with others who may have superior resources. we cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. we also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by our current and future markets. failure to develop new products and services that are accepted by these markets could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the capital and credit markets are important to our business. instability in u.s. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. in particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategies. 9 table of contents our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit at interest rates and on terms that are acceptable to them could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. see part ii item 7a, "quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk." we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. many of our non-u.s. operations have a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar, and their results are translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes. therefore, our reported results will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the respective foreign currency. we use derivative instruments to hedge those material exposures that cannot be naturally offset. the instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business or the business operations of previously-owned entities. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, contract claims or other commercial disputes, product liability, product defects and asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against the total aggregate amount of losses sustained as a result of such proceedings and contingencies. as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other events could affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. we may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. we rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are supported by third party vendors including cloud services, to manage and operate our business. we are also investing in new information technology systems that are designed to continue improving our operations. if these systems cease to function properly, if these systems experience security breaches or disruptions or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 10 table of contents security breaches or disruptions of our technology systems, infrastructure or products could negatively impact our business and financial results. our information technology systems and infrastructure and technology embedded in certain of our control products may be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized security intrusions. it is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period. in addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly result in security breaches or disruptions. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly changing and evolving. despite having instituted security policies and business continuity plans, and implementing and regularly reviewing and updating processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access, the ever-evolving threats mean we must continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. our systems, networks and certain of our control products may be vulnerable to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events that could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information or the personally identifiable data relating to our customers, employees and business partners and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation. such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to a cybersecurity attack or disruptions resulting from such attacks. commodity shortages and price increases could adversely affect our financial results. we rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. a disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. volatility in the prices of these commodities or the impact of inflationary increases could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. conversely, in the event there is deflation, we may experience pressure from our customers to reduce prices. there can be no assurance that we would be able to reduce our costs (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. we do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against this volatility. while we use fixed price contracts to mitigate this exposure, we expect any future hedging activity to seek to minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices which would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases. some of our purchases are from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of cost effectiveness, uniqueness of design or product quality. if these suppliers encounter financial or operating difficulties, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. at december 31, 2017 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $ 5.9 billion and $ 2.7 billion , respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and sustained market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods recognized. global climate change and related regulations could negatively affect our business. refrigerants are essential to many of our products and there is a growing awareness and concern regarding global warming potential of such materials. as such, national, regional and international regulations and policies are being considered to curtail their use. as we begin to see regulations impeding the use of the current class of widely used refrigerants we are planning for, and managing transitions to, sustainable solutions. we have committed to increase energy efficiency and reduce our climate impact with operational and product-related climate targets, including among other initiatives: (i) 50 percent reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions refrigerant footprint of our products for our customers by 2020 and lower global warming potential alternatives across our portfolio by 2030; (ii) $500 million investment in product-related research and development from 2015-2020 to fund the long-term reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; and (iii) 35 percent reduction in the greenhouse gas footprint of our office buildings, manufacturing facilities and fleet by 2020. while we are committed to pursuing these sustainable solutions, there can be no assurance that our commitments will be successful, that our products will be accepted by the market, that proposed regulation or deregulation will not have a negative competitive impact or that economic returns will match the investment that we are making in new product development. 11 table of contents concerns regarding global climate change have resulted in the kigali amendment to the montreal protocol, pursuant to which countries have agreed to a scheduled phase down of certain high global warming potential refrigerants. national regulations are expected to be set globally to reduce the use of these refrigerants. these regulations could be even more restrictive than the international agreement. some countries including the u.s. have not yet ratified the amendment and there could be lower customer demand for next generation products in these countries. there continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. in addition, the u.s. withdrawal from the paris accord could affect our competitiveness in certain markets. such regulatory uncertainty extends to future incentives for energy efficient buildings and vehicles and costs of compliance, which may impact the demand for our products, obsolescence of our products and our results of operations. natural disasters or other unexpected events may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be covered by insurance. the occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including hurricanes, fires, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather in the u.s. or in other countries in which we operate or are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. natural disasters, power outages or other unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our plants, temporary or long-term disruption of our operations by causing business interruptions or by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing. existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for the costs that may arise from such events, particularly if such events are catastrophic in nature or occur in combination. the occurrence of any of these events could increase our insurance and other operating costs. some of the markets in which we operate are cyclical and seasonal and demand for our products and services could be adversely affected by downturns in these industries. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers fluctuates based on planned expansions, new builds, repairs, commodity prices, general economic conditions, availability of credit, inflation, interest rates, market forecasts, tax and regulatory developments, trade policies, fiscal spending and sociopolitcal factors among others. our commercial and residential hvac businesses, which collectively represent 64% of our 2017 net revenues, provide products and services to a wide range of markets, including significant sales to the commercial and residential construction markets. weakness in either or both of these construction markets may negatively impact the demand for our products and services. demand for our commercial and residential hvac business is also influenced by weather conditions. for instance, sales in our commercial and residential hvac businesses historically tend to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the u.s. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. the results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unusual weather patterns or events could negatively or positively affect our business and impact overall results of operations. the business of many of our industrial customers, particularly oil and gas companies are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. during such economic downturns, customers in these industries historically have tended to delay major capital projects, maintenance projects and upgrades. decrease in the demand or our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. 12 table of contents our business strategy includes acquiring and divesting companies, product lines, plants and assets, entering into joint ventures and making investments that complement our existing businesses. we may not identify acquisition, disposition or joint venture candidates at the same rate as the past. acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and investments that we identify could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition and divestiture of strategic businesses and product lines, technologies and capabilities, plants and assets, joint ventures and investments with the potential to strengthen our industry position, enhance our existing set of product and services offerings, to increase productivity and efficiencies, or to grow or protect revenues, earnings and cash flow or to reduce costs. there can be no assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable candidates in the future, that we will consummate these transactions at rates similar to the past or that completed transactions will be successful. strategic transactions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. such transactions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of either acquired businesses or our business; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired businesses and exposure to regulatory sanctions; inheriting internal control deficiencies; dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities; and in the case of joint ventures and other investments, interests that diverge from those of our partners without the ability to direct the management and operations of the joint venture or investment in the manner we believe most appropriate. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as such transactions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. our operations are subject to regulatory risks. our u.s. and non-u.s. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including among others, laws related to the environment and health and safety. we have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. any violations of applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions. changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. the u.s. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to u.s. companies that reincorporate outside of the u.s. or have reincorporated outside of the u.s or may take other actions negatively impacting such companies. if we are unable to effectively respond to changes to applicable laws and regulations, interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. risks relating to our past spin-off transaction in december 2013, we completed the spin-off of our former commercial and residential security businesses to our shareholders (the spin-off) pursuant to which each shareholder as of the record date for the spin-off received one ordinary share of allegion plc (allegion) for every three ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shares. allegion is now an independent public company. this spin-off exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the spin-off and subsequent to the spin-off will be realized. 13 table of contents if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders as of the time of the distribution that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or allegion could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we received a ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of allegion plc's ordinary shares, together with certain related transactions, will qualify for tax-free treatment under sections 355 and 368(a) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code), with the result that we and our shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares (the irs ruling). the irs ruling also provides that specified internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition, we received opinions from the law firm of simpson thacher &amp; bartlett llp substantially to the effect that specified requirements, including certain requirements that the irs will not rule on, necessary to obtain tax-free treatment have been satisfied, such that the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes and certain other matters relating to the distribution, including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution, will receive tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the irs ruling and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the irs ruling and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in shares or asset ownership after the distribution. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser's best legal judgment and is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. in addition, the opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution, and/or internal transactions, ultimately is determined to be taxable, we or allegion could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities, which could cause a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. furthermore, if, notwithstanding receipt of the irs ruling and opinions, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each shareholder subject to u.s. federal income tax who received shares of allegion in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the allegion shares received. that distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of our then-current and accumulated earnings and profits. any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the applicable shareholder's tax basis in our ordinary shares with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. under the terms of the tax matters agreement between us and allegion executed in connection with the spin-off, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us or allegion, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or allegion as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us or allegion, then allegion would be responsible for any taxes imposed on us or allegion as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. if allegion were to default in its obligation to us to pay such taxes, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of tax liabilities. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. if the distribution is determined to be taxable for irish tax purposes, significant irish tax liabilities may arise. we received an opinion of irish revenue regarding the irish tax consequences of the distribution to the effect that certain reliefs and exemptions for corporate reorganizations apply. in addition to obtaining the opinion from irish revenue, we also received opinions from the law firm of arthur cox confirming the applicability of the relevant exemptions and reliefs to the distribution as well as received opinions from other external advisers that certain internal transactions will not trigger irish tax costs as well. these opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the opinions, irish revenue could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions do not qualify for the relevant exemptions or reliefs if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser's best legal judgment and is not binding on irish revenue or the courts and irish revenue or the courts may not agree with the legal opinion. in addition, the legal opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution ultimately is determined not to fall within certain exemptions or reliefs, the distribution could result in certain of our shareholders having an irish tax liability as a result of the distribution, or we or allegion could incur irish tax liabilities. to the extent we are responsible for any such liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. 14 table of contents risks relating to our operations and corporate structure our corporate structure has resulted from prior corporate reorganizations and related transactions. these various transactions exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. in addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of our operations and corporate structure will be realized. changes in tax or other laws, regulations or treaties, including the recent enactment of the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act, changes in our status under u.s. or non-u.s. laws or adverse determinations by taxing or other governmental authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. the realization of any tax benefit related to our operations and corporate structure could be impacted by changes in tax or other laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the u.s. or non-u.s. tax or other governmental authorities. recently enacted comprehensive tax reform legislation known as the tax cuts and jobs act (tcja) makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code. as part of the migration from a worldwide system of taxation to a modified territorial system for corporations, the tcja imposes a transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries. we have taken a charge in connection with the mandatory deemed repatriation of earnings of certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we have recorded other charges and benefits, set forth in greater detail in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. we are also continuing to evaluate any additional impact on the company from the tcja. the full impact of the changes is not currently determinable, as we are expecting future guidance to be issued by the u.s. department of treasury and/or the irs, which we expect will provide better clarity regarding the interpretation and application of these rules; however, the new law's substantial limitations on, and/or elimination of, certain tax deductions and the introduction of new taxing provisions, among other items, may increase our overall tax burden or otherwise negatively impact the company. moreover, our overall tax burden may also be adversely impacted by any tax law changes implemented by other countries. notwithstanding this change in u.s. tax law, we continue to monitor for other tax changes, u.s. and non-u.s. related. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted or implemented could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, the organisation for economic co-operation and development has released proposals to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting, such that tax laws in countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely impact us. finally, the european commission has been very active in investigating whether various tax regimes or private tax rulings provided by a country to particular taxpayers may constitute state aid. we cannot predict the outcome of any of these potential changes or investigations in any of the jurisdictions, but if any of the above occurs and impacts us, this could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. while we monitor proposals and other developments that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals or regulatory changes are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax or other laws is challenged and determined to be incorrect. in particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the shareholders' decision to reorganize in ireland, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation. while our u.s. operations are subject to u.s. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-u.s. operations are generally not subject to u.s. tax other than withholding taxes. for pre-tcja years, the irs or a court, however, may not concur with our conclusions including our determination that we, and a significant number of our foreign subsidiaries, are not controlled foreign corporations (cfc) within the meaning of the u.s. tax laws. a contrary determination could also potentially cause u.s. holders (direct, indirect or constructive owners) of 10% or more of our stock (or the voting stock of our non-u.s. subsidiaries) to include in their gross income their pro rata share of certain of our and our non-u.s. subsidiary income for the period during which we (and our non-u.s. subsidiaries) were a cfc. in addition, a gain (or a portion of such gain) realized on cfc shares sold by such shareholders may be treated as ordinary income depending on certain facts. treatment of us or any of our non-u.s. subsidiaries as a cfc for such years could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our operations and corporate structure could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. these examinations on their own, or any subsequent litigation related to the examinations, may result in additional taxes or penalties 15 table of contents against us. if the ultimate result of these audits differ from our original or adjusted estimates, they could have a material impact on our tax provision. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on u.s. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. in addition, irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. also, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. under irish law, we must have authority from our shareholders to issue any shares, including shares that are part of the company's authorized but unissued share capital. in addition, unless otherwise authorized by its shareholders, when an irish company issues shares for cash to new shareholders, it is required first to offer those shares on the same or more favorable terms to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis. if we are unable to obtain these authorizations from our shareholders, or are otherwise limited by the terms of our authorizations, our ability to issue shares or otherwise raise capital could be adversely affected. dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, we are required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. in the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the united states will not be subject to irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain irish dividend withholding tax forms. however, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ingersoll-rand plc. our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in ingersoll-rand plc. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties as of december 31, 2017 , we owned or leased a total of approximately 31 million square feet of space worldwide. manufacturing and assembly operations are conducted in 53 plants across the world. we also maintain various warehouses, offices and repair centers throughout the world. the majority of our plant facilities are owned by us with the remainder under long-term lease arrangements. we believe that our plants have been well maintained, are generally in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. 16 table of contents the locations by segment of our principal plant facilities at december 31, 2017 were as follows: climate americas europe and middle east asia pacific and india arecibo, puerto rico barcelona, spain bangkok, thailand charlotte, north carolina bari, italy penang, malaysia clarksville, tennessee charmes, france taicang, china columbia, south carolina essen, germany zhongshan, china curitiba, brazil galway, ireland fairlawn, new jersey golbey, france fort smith, arkansas king abdullah economic city, saudi arabia grand rapids, michigan kolin, czech republic hastings, nebraska la crosse, wisconsin lexington, kentucky lynn haven, florida macon, georgia monterrey, mexico pueblo, colorado rushville, indiana st. paul, minnesota trenton, new jersey tyler, texas vidalia, georgia waco, texas industrial americas europe and middle east asia pacific and india augusta, georgia fogliano redipuglia, italy changzhou, china buffalo, new york logatec, slovenia guilin, china campbellsville, kentucky oberhausen, germany naroda, india dorval, canada sin le noble, france sahibabad, india kent, washington vignate, italy wujiang, china mocksville, north carolina wasquehal, france sarasota, florida southern pines, north carolina west chester, pennsylvania item 3. legal proceedings in the normal course of business, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, including commercial and contract disputes, employment matters, product liability and product defect claims, asbestos-related claims, environmental liabilities, intellectual property disputes, and tax-related matters. in our opinion, pending legal matters are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. asbestos-related matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. in virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. the vast majority of those claims allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. see also the discussion under part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "contingent liabilities," and also note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 17 table of contents item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities information regarding the principal market for our ordinary shares and related shareholder matters is as follows: our ordinary shares are traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol ir. as of february 1, 2018 , the approximate number of record holders of ordinary shares was 3,272 . the high and low sales price per share and the dividend declared per share for the following periods were as follows: ordinary shares 2017 high low dividend first quarter $ 82.17 $ 74.35 $ 0.40 second quarter 93.17 80.48 0.40 third quarter 94.39 83.07 0.45 fourth quarter 96.23 83.30 0.45 2016 high low dividend first quarter $ 62.48 $ 47.08 $ 0.32 second quarter 67.48 59.10 0.32 third quarter 68.97 62.40 0.32 fourth quarter 79.21 63.87 0.40 future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the irish companies act 2014. under the irish companies act 2014, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits (so far as not previously distributed or capitalized) less its accumulated, realized losses (so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of its share capital) of ingersoll-rand plc. in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of ingersoll-rand plc are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of ingersoll-rand plc's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce ingersoll-rand plc's net assets below such aggregate. information regarding equity compensation plans required to be disclosed pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the annual general meeting of shareholders. 18 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the following table provides information with respect to purchases by us of our ordinary shares during the quarter ended december 31, 2017 : period total number of shares purchased (000's) (a) (b) average price paid per share (a) (b) total number of shares purchased as part of program (000's) (a) approximate dollar value of shares still available to be purchased under the program ($000's) (a) october 1 - october 31 1,157.7 $ 91.25 1,156.8 $ 900,020 november 1 - november 30 0.2 86.38 $ 900,020 december 1 - december 31 1.1 86.51 $ 900,020 total 1,159.0 $ 91.25 1,156.8 (a) in february 2017, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the prior authorized share repurchase program. repurchases under the new share repurchase program began in may 2017. share repurchases are made from time to time in accordance with management's capital allocation strategy, subject to market conditions and regulatory requirements. the repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date. (b) we may also reacquire shares outside of the repurchase program from time to time in connection with the surrender of shares to cover taxes on vesting of share based awards. we reacquired 912 shares in october, 160 shares in november, and 1,120 shares in december in transactions outside the repurchase programs. 19 table of contents performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our ordinary shares with the cumulative total return on (i) the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and (ii) the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index for the five years ended december 31, 2017 . the graph assumes an investment of $100 in our ordinary shares, the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index and the standard &amp; poor's 500 industrial index on december 31, 2012 and assumes the reinvestment of dividends. company/index 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ingersoll rand 100 163 170 151 209 253 s&amp;p 500 100 132 150 152 170 206 s&amp;p 500 industrials index 100 140 154 150 178 215 20 table of contents item 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts: at and for the years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 net revenues $ 14,197.6 $ 13,508.9 $ 13,300.7 $ 12,891.4 $ 12,350.5 net earnings (loss) attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: continuing operations 1,328.0 1,443.3 688.9 897.0 620.1 discontinued operations (25.4 ) 32.9 (24.3 ) 34.7 (1.3 ) total assets 18,173.3 17,397.4 16,717.6 17,274.6 17,641.5 total debt 4,064.0 4,070.2 4,217.8 4,200.5 3,504.6 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 7,140.3 6,643.8 5,816.7 5,987.4 7,068.9 earnings (loss) per share attributable to ingersoll-rand plc ordinary shareholders: basic: continuing operations $ 5.21 $ 5.57 $ 2.60 $ 3.32 $ 2.11 discontinued operations (0.10 ) 0.13 (0.09 ) 0.12 diluted: continuing operations $ 5.14 $ 5.52 $ 2.57 $ 3.27 $ 2.08 discontinued operations (0.09 ) 0.13 (0.09 ) 0.13 (0.01 ) dividends declared per ordinary share $ 1.70 $ 1.36 $ 1.16 $ 1.00 $ 0.63 21 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this annual report. overview organization we are a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality, energy efficiency and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. our business segments consist of climate and industrial, both with strong brands and highly differentiated products within their respective markets. we generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as ingersoll-rand , trane , thermo king , american standard , aro , and club car . to achieve our mission of being a world leader in creating comfortable, sustainable and efficient environments, we continue to focus on growth by increasing our recurring revenue stream from parts, service, controls, used equipment and rentals; and to continuously improve the efficiencies and capabilities of the products and services of our businesses. we also continue to focus on operational excellence strategies as a central theme to improving our earnings and cash flows. trends and economic events we are a global corporation with worldwide operations. as a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors, as well as political factors, wherever we operate or do business. our geographic and industry diversity, and the breadth of our product and services portfolios, have helped mitigate the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. given the broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the company. we monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. we regularly perform detailed evaluations of the different market segments we are serving to proactively detect trends and to adapt our strategies accordingly. in addition, we believe our order rates are indicative of future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. in those industry segments where we are a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. current economic conditions continue to show mixed trends in each of the segments in which we participate. heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (hvac) equipment replacement and aftermarket continue to experience strong demand. in addition, residential and commercial new construction have seen continued momentum in the united states which is positively impacting the results of our hvac businesses. however, non-residential markets in both europe and asia remain mixed. global industrial markets appear to be improving with positive signs in our shorter-cycle businesses. going forward, we expect moderate growth within our climate segment and market improvements in our industrial segment, each benefiting from operational excellence initiatives, new product launches and continued productivity programs. we believe we have a solid foundation of global brands that are highly differentiated in all of our major product lines. our growing geographic and industry diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service, parts and replacement revenue streams. in addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which we expect will drive our future growth. significant events tax cuts and job act in december 2017, the u.s. enacted the tax cuts and jobs act (the act ) which makes widespread changes to the internal revenue code. the act, among other things, reduced the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, requires companies to pay a transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously not subject to u.s. tax and creates new income taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. the sec issued staff accounting bulletin no. 118 (sab 118) which provides guidance on accounting for the tax effects of the act and allows for adjustments to provisional amounts during a measurement period of up to one year. in accordance with sab 118, we have made reasonable estimates related to (1) the remeasurement of u.s. deferred tax balances for the reduction in the tax rate (2) the liability for the transition tax and (3) the taxes accrued relating 22 table of contents to the change in permanent reinvestment assertion for unremitted earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. as a result, we recognized a net provisional income tax benefit of $21.0 million associated with these items in 2017. we are continuing to evaluate how the provisions of the act will be accounted for under asc 740, income taxes (asc 740). the analysis is provisional and is subject to change due to the additional time required to accurately calculate and review the complex tax law. any measurement period adjustments will be reported as a component of provision for income taxes in the reporting period the amounts are determined. the final accounting will be completed no later than one year from the enactment of the act. share repurchase program and dividends share repurchases are made from time to time in accordance with management's capital allocation strategy, subject to market conditions and regulatory requirements. in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program that began in april 2014 and was completed in the second quarter of 2017. in february 2017, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program upon completion of the prior share repurchase program. repurchases under this program began in may 2017 and total approximately $ 600 million at december 31, 2017. as a result, we have approximately $ 900 million remaining under this program. we repurchased approximately $ 1.0 billion of our ordinary shares during 2017. in august 2017, we announced an increase in our quarterly share dividend from $0.40 to $0.45 per ordinary share. this reflects a 12.5% increase that began with our september 2017 payment and a 55% increase since the beginning of 2016. acquisitions during 2017, we acquired several businesses, including channel acquisitions, that complement existing products and services. the aggregate purchase price, net of cash acquired, totaled $157.6 million and was funded through cash on hand. acquisitions within the climate segment primarily consisted of independent dealers which support the ongoing strategy to expand our distribution network in north america. other acquisitions within the segment strengthen our product portfolio. acquisitions within the industrial segment primarily consisted of a telematics business which builds upon our growing portfolio of connected assets. in addition, other acquisitions within the segment expand sales and service channels across the globe. on january 1, 2015, we completed the acquisition of the assets of cameron international corporation's centrifugal compression (engineered centrifugal compression) business for approximately $ 850 million . the acquired business manufactures centrifugal compression equipment and provides aftermarket parts and services for global industrial applications, air separation, gas transmission and process gas. the acquisition was funded through a combination of cash on hand and debt. the results of the engineered centrifugal compression business have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition and reported within our industrial segment. on march 4, 2015, we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of frigoblock for approximately 100 million (approximately $113 million). the acquisition was funded through a combination of cash on hand and debt. the acquired business manufactures and designs transport refrigeration units for trucks and trailers, which it sells primarily in western europe. the results of the frigoblock business have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition and reported within our climate segment. sale of hussmann equity investment during 2011, we completed the sale of a controlling interest of our hussmann refrigerated display case business (hussmann) to a newly-formed affiliate of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). per the terms of the agreement, cd&amp;r's ownership interest in hussmann at the acquisition date was 60% with the remaining 40% being retained by us. as a result, we accounted for our interest in hussmann using the equity method of accounting. on december 21, 2015, we announced we would sell our remaining equity interest in hussmann as part of a transaction in which panasonic corporation would acquire 100 percent of hussmann's outstanding shares. the transaction was completed on april 1, 2016. we received net proceeds of $422.5 million for our interest and recognized a gain of $397.8 million on the sale. irs exam results in july 2015, we entered into an agreement with the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) to resolve disputes related to withholding and income taxes for years 2002 through 2011 (the irs agreement). the irs had previously disagreed with our tax treatment of intercompany debt and distributions and asserted we owed income and withholding tax relating to the 2002-2006 period totaling $774 million, not including interest and penalties. we also provided a substantial amount of information to the irs in connection with its audit of the 2007-2011 tax periods. we expected the irs to propose similar adjustments to these periods, although it was not known how the irs would apply its position to the different facts presented in these years or whether the irs would take a similar position to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years. 23 table of contents the resolution reached in july 2015 covered intercompany debt and related issues for the entire period from 2002 through 2011 and includes all aspects of the dispute with the u.s. tax court, the appeals division and the examination division of the irs. the resolution was subsequently reported to the congressional joint committee on taxation (jct), as required, for its review. the jct concluded its review without objection in december 2015 and the settlement was finalized with the irs in december 2015. pursuant to the agreement with the irs, we agreed to pay withholding tax and interest of $412 million in respect to the 2002-2006 years. we owed no additional tax with respect to intercompany debt and related matters for the years 2007-2011. no penalties were applied to any of the tax years 2002 through 2011. the resolution resulted in a net cash outflow in 2015 of approximately $ 364 million , consisting of $230 million in tax and $134 million of interest, net of a tax benefit of $48 million. 24 table of contents results of operations our climate segment delivers energy-efficient products and innovative energy services. it includes trane and american standard heating &amp; air conditioning which provide heating, ventilation and air conditioning (hvac) systems, and commercial and residential building services, parts, support and controls; energy services and building automation through trane building advantage and nexia; and thermo king transport temperature control solutions. our industrial segment delivers products and services that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. it includes compressed air and gas systems and services, power tools, material handling systems, aro fluid management equipment, as well as club car golf, utility and consumer low-speed vehicles. segment operating income is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate the financial performance of the business and as the basis for performance reviews, compensation and resource allocation. for these reasons, we believe that segment operating income represents the most relevant measure of segment profit and loss. we define segment operating margin as segment operating income as a percentage of net revenues . on january 1, 2017, we adopted accounting standards update (asu) no. 2016-09, "compensation-stock compensation (topic 718): improvements to employee share-based payment accounting" (asu 2016-09) which simplifies several aspects of the accounting for employee share-based payment transactions. the standard makes several modifications to the accounting for forfeitures, employer tax withholding on share-based compensation and the financial statement presentation of excess tax benefits or deficiencies. in addition, asu 2016-09 clarifies the statement of cash flows presentation for certain components of share-based awards. we applied the cash flow presentation requirements retrospectively. on january 1, 2017, we adopted asu no. 2017-07, "compensation-retirement benefits (topic 715): improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost" (asu 2017-07) which requires a company to present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost in the same income statement line as other employee compensation costs with the remaining components of net periodic benefit cost presented separately from the service cost component and outside of any subtotal of operating income, if one is presented. we applied the presentation requirements retrospectively. year ended december 31, 2017 compared to the year ended december 31, 2016 dollar amounts in millions 2017 2016 period change 2017 % of revenues 2016 % of revenues net revenues $ 14,197.6 $ 13,508.9 $ 688.7 cost of goods sold (9,811.6 ) (9,307.9 ) (503.7 ) 69.1% 68.9% selling and administrative expenses (2,720.7 ) (2,597.8 ) (122.9 ) 19.2% 19.2% operating income 1,665.3 1,603.2 62.1 11.7% 11.9% interest expense (215.8 ) (221.5 ) 5.7 other income/(expense), net (31.6 ) 359.6 (391.2 ) earnings before income taxes 1,417.9 1,741.3 (323.4 ) provision for income taxes (80.2 ) (281.5 ) 201.3 earnings from continuing operations 1,337.7 1,459.8 (122.1 ) discontinued operations, net of tax (25.4 ) 32.9 (58.3 ) net earnings $ 1,312.3 $ 1,492.7 $ (180.4 ) net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017 increased by 5.1% , or $688.7 million , compared with the same period of 2016 . the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix 4.4 % pricing 0.3 % currency translation 0.4 % total 5.1 % the increase was primarily driven by higher volumes in both our climate and industrial segments. additionally, improved pricing and favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements further contributed to the year-over-year increase. 25 table of contents our revenues by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2017 2016 % change climate $ 11,167.5 $ 10,545.0 5.9% industrial 3,030.1 2,963.9 2.2% total $ 14,197.6 $ 13,508.9 climate net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017 increased by 5.9% or $ 622.5 million , compared with the same period of 2016 . the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix 5.4 % pricing 0.2 % currency translation 0.3 % total 5.9 % the primary driver of the increase related to incremental volumes from solid order growth in the commercial hvac and residential hvac businesses. pricing improvements in these businesses further contributed to segment results. the segment also realized favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements in a majority of our businesses. industrial net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017 increased by 2.2% or $ 66.2 million , compared with the same period of 2016 . the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix 0.7 % pricing 1.0 % currency translation 0.5 % total 2.2 % the primary driver of the increase related to improved pricing in our compression technologies and small electric vehicle businesses. in addition, overall volumes increased but were partially offset by a decline in large compressor volumes in our compression technologies business. segment results were also positively impacted by overall favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. operating income/margin operating margin decreased to 11.7% for the year ended december 31, 2017 , compared to 11.9% for the same period of 2016 . the decrease was primarily the result of material inflation in excess of pricing improvements (0.7%) and the timing of investment and restructuring spending (0.7%). these amounts were partially offset by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.6%) and increased volume and favorable product mix (0.6%). our operating income and operating margin by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2017 operating income (expense) 2016 operating income (expense) period change 2017 operating margin 2016 operating margin climate $ 1,572.7 $ 1,537.5 $ 35.2 14.1 % 14.6 % industrial 357.6 300.3 57.3 11.8 % 10.1 % unallocated corporate expense (265.0 ) (234.6 ) (30.4 ) n/a n/a total $ 1,665.3 $ 1,603.2 $ 62.1 11.7 % 11.9 % climate operating margin decreased to 14.1% for the year ended december 31, 2017 , compared to 14.6% for the same period of 2016 . the decrease was primarily the result of material inflation in excess of pricing improvements (0.9%) and the timing of investment and restructuring spending (0.8%). these amounts were partially offset by productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.9%) and increased volumes and favorable product mix (0.3%). 26 table of contents industrial operating margin increased to 11.8% for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to 10.1% for the same period of 2016 . the increase was primarily due to increased volumes and favorable product mix (0.9%) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.4%), the non-recurrence of capitalized costs related to new product engineering and development that were reclassified to the income statement (0.4%), pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.2%) and favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements (0.1%). these amounts were partially offset by the timing of investment and restructuring spending (0.3%). unallocated corporate expense unallocated corporate expense for the year ended december 31, 2017 increased by 13.0% or $ 30.4 million , compared with the same period of 2016 . the increase in expenses primarily relates to costs associated with acquisition efforts, higher employee benefit costs and stock-based compensation as well as planned incubator investments in technologies that benefit our business. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2017 decreased by $ 5.7 million compared with the same period of 2016 . the decrease relates primarily to changes in short-term financing arrangements and other items. other income/(expense), net the components of other income/(expense), net , for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2017 2016 period change interest income $ 9.4 $ 8.0 $ 1.4 exchange gain (loss) (8.8 ) (2.0 ) (6.8 ) other components of net periodic benefit cost (31.0 ) (30.1 ) (0.9 ) income (loss) from equity investment (0.8 ) 0.8 gain on sale of hussmann equity investment 397.8 (397.8 ) other activity, net (1.2 ) (13.3 ) 12.1 other income/(expense), net $ (31.6 ) $ 359.6 $ (391.2 ) other income /(expense), net includes the results from activities other than normal business operations such as interest income and foreign currency gains and losses on transactions that are denominated in a currency other than an entity's functional currency. in addition, we include the components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and post retirement obligations other than the service cost component as a result of the adoption of asu 2017-07. other activity, net include costs associated with trane u.s. inc. (trane) for the settlement and defense of asbestos-related claims, insurance settlements on asbestos-related matters and the revaluation of its liability for potential future claims. other activity, net for the year ended december 31, 2016 includes a charge of $16.4 million for the settlement of a lawsuit originally filed by a customer in 2012. the lawsuit related to a commercial hvac contract entered into in 2001, prior to our acquisition of trane. the charge represents the settlement and related legal costs recognized during the fourth quarter of 2016. provision for income taxes the 2017 effective tax rate was 5.7% which is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the remeasurement of our net u.s. deferred tax liabilities, the premium paid related to the early retirement of certain intercompany debt obligations, the recognition of a claim for refund related to previously paid interest and the recognition of excess tax benefits from employee shared based payments as a result of the adoption of asu 2016-09 on january 1, 2017. in the aggregate, these items decreased the effective tax rate by 37.9%. this decrease was partially offset by the transition tax cost, a change in permanent reinvestment assertion on the unremitted earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries and a non-cash charge related to the establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets in brazil. in the aggregate these items increased the effective tax rate by 13.7%. in addition, the reduction was also driven by earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate, have a lower effective tax rate. revenues from non-u.s. jurisdictions account for approximately 35% of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income is earned and taxed outside the u.s. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. when comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between u.s. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability on our overall effective tax rate. 27 table of contents the 2016 effective tax rate was 16.2% which is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the tax treatment of the hussmann gain. the gain, which is not subject to tax under the relevant local tax laws, decreased the effective tax rate by 4.8%. in addition, the reduction was also driven by earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate, have a lower effective tax rate. revenues from non-u.s. jurisdictions account for approximately 35% of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income is earned and taxed outside the u.s. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. when comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between u.s. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability on our overall effective tax rate. discontinued operations the components of discontinued operations, net of tax for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2017 2016 period change pre-tax earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ (34.0 ) $ 28.1 $ (62.1 ) tax benefit (expense) 8.6 4.8 3.8 discontinued operations, net of tax $ (25.4 ) $ 32.9 $ (58.3 ) discontinued operations are retained costs from previously sold businesses including postretirement benefits, product liability and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related). in addition, we include costs for the settlement and defense of asbestos-related claims, insurance settlements on asbestos-related matters and the revaluation of its liability for potential future claims. for the year ended december 31, 2016, ongoing costs were more than offset by asbestos-related settlements with various insurance carriers. a portion of the tax benefits (expense) in each period represent adjustments for certain tax matters associated with the 2013 spin-off of our commercial and residential security business, now an independent public company operating under the name of allegion plc (allegion). year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 dollar amounts in millions 2016 2015 period change 2016 % of revenues 2015 % of revenues net revenues $ 13,508.9 $ 13,300.7 $ 208.2 cost of goods sold (9,307.9 ) (9,277.4 ) (30.5 ) 68.9% 69.8% selling and administrative expenses (2,597.8 ) (2,531.6 ) (66.2 ) 19.2% 19.0% operating income 1,603.2 1,491.7 111.5 11.9% 11.2% interest expense (221.5 ) (223.0 ) 1.5 other income/(expense), net 359.6 (20.8 ) 380.4 earnings before income taxes 1,741.3 1,247.9 493.4 provision for income taxes (281.5 ) (540.8 ) 259.3 earnings from continuing operations 1,459.8 707.1 752.7 discontinued operations, net of tax 32.9 (24.3 ) 57.2 net earnings $ 1,492.7 $ 682.8 $ 809.9 net revenues net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016 increased by 1.6% , or $208.2 million , compared with the same period of 2015 , which primarily resulted from the following: volume/product mix 2.2 % acquisitions 0.1 % pricing 0.3 % currency translation (1.0 )% total 1.6 % the increase was primarily driven by higher volumes in our climate segment. improved pricing, along with incremental revenues from acquisitions, further contributed to the year-over-year increase. these amounts were partially offset by lower volumes in our industrial segment and overall unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. 28 table of contents our revenues by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2016 2015 % change climate $ 10,545.0 $ 10,224.3 3.1% industrial 2,963.9 3,076.4 (3.7)% total $ 13,508.9 $ 13,300.7 climate net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016 increased by 3.1% or $ 320.7 million , compared with the same period of 2015 . the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix 3.8 % acquisitions 0.1 % pricing 0.2 % currency translation (1.0 )% total 3.1 % the primary driver of the increase related to incremental volumes in both the commercial hvac and residential hvac businesses. commercial hvac results reflect continued improvements in equipment, parts and services while residential hvac results increased with strong order growth and improved pricing. in addition, revenues associated with acquisitions added incremental volume during the current period. improvements in price across the majority of our businesses further contributed to segment results. however, overall revenue improvements were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. industrial net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016 decreased by 3.7% , or $ 112.5 million , compared with the same period of 2015 . the components of the period change are as follows: volume/product mix (3.2 )% acquisitions 0.1 % pricing 0.6 % currency translation (1.2 )% total (3.7 )% the primary driver of the decrease related to lower overall volumes in the majority of our businesses due to continued weakness in the industrial markets. segment results were also negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. however, the decline was partially offset by improvements in pricing with the majority of our businesses as well as incremental revenue provided by acquisitions. operating income/margin operating margin improved to 11.9% for the year ended december 31, 2016 , compared to 11.2% for the same period of 2015 . the increase was primarily the result of pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.7%), increased volume and favorable product mix (0.2%), the non-recurrence of acquisition related step-up amortization (0.2%) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.1%). these amounts were partially offset by increased investment and restructuring spending (0.3%), capitalized costs related to new product engineering and development that were reclassified to the income statement (0.1%) and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements (0.1%). 29 table of contents our operating income and operating margin by segment are as follows: dollar amounts in millions 2016 operating income (expense) 2015 operating income (expense) period change 2016 operating margin 2015 operating margin climate $ 1,537.5 $ 1,314.4 $ 223.1 14.6 % 12.9 % industrial 300.3 378.3 (78.0 ) 10.1 % 12.3 % unallocated corporate expense (234.6 ) (201.0 ) $ (33.6 ) n/a n/a total $ 1,603.2 $ 1,491.7 $ 111.5 11.9 % 11.2 % climate operating margin improved to 14.6% for the year ended december 31, 2016 , compared to 12.9% for the same period of 2015 . the improvement was primarily the result of pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.7%), increased volume and favorable product mix (0.7%) and productivity benefits in excess of other inflation (0.5%). these amounts were partially offset by increased investment and restructuring spending (0.2%). industrial operating margin decreased to 10.1% for the year ended december 31, 2016 , compared to 12.3% for the same period of 2015 . the decrease was primarily due to lower volume and unfavorable product mix (2.1%). the segment was also impacted by higher investment and restructuring spending (0.4%), lower productivity in excess of other inflation (0.4%), capitalized costs related to new product engineering and development that were reclassified to the income statement (0.3%) and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements (0.2%). these amounts were partially offset by non-recurrence of acquisition related step-up amortization (0.6%) and pricing improvements in excess of material inflation (0.6%). unallocated corporate expense unallocated corporate expense for the year ended december 31, 2016 increased by 16.7% or $33.6 million , compared with the same period of 2015 . the increase in expenses relates to higher compensation and benefit charges related to variable compensation during 2016. in addition, higher restructuring charges impacted the current period. interest expense interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2016 decreased by $ 1.5 million compared with the same period of 2015 . the decrease relates primarily to changes in short-term financing arrangements and other items. other income/(expense), net the components of other income/(expense), net , for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2016 2015 period change interest income $ 8.0 $ 10.6 $ (2.6 ) exchange gain (loss) (2.0 ) (36.2 ) 34.2 other components of net periodic benefit cost (30.1 ) (33.7 ) 3.6 income (loss) from equity investment (0.8 ) 12.6 (13.4 ) gain on sale of hussmann equity investment 397.8 397.8 other activity, net (13.3 ) 25.9 (39.2 ) other income/(expense), net $ 359.6 $ (20.8 ) $ 380.4 other income /(expense), net includes the results from activities other than normal business operations such as interest income and foreign currency gains and losses on transactions that are denominated in a currency other than an entity's functional currency. in addition, we include the components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and post retirement obligations other than the service cost component as a result of the adoption of asu 2017-07. other activity, net include costs associated with trane for the settlement and defense of asbestos-related claims, insurance settlements on asbestos-related matters and the revaluation of its liability for potential future claims. amounts recorded during 2015 include a settlement with an insurance carrier. in addition, other activity, net for the year ended december 31, 2016 includes $16.4 million for the settlement of a lawsuit originally filed by a customer in 2012. the lawsuit related to a commercial hvac contract entered into in 2001, prior to our acquisition of trane. the charge represents the settlement and related legal costs recognized during 2016. 30 table of contents during the year ended december 31, 2015, we recognized a loss on foreign currency exchange of $36.2 million. this loss is comprised of a $42.6 million pre-tax charge recorded in the first quarter related to the remeasurement of net monetary assets denominated in venezuelan bolivar. this loss was partially offset by $6.4 million of foreign currency transaction gains resulting from the re-measurement of non-functional balance sheet positions into their functional currency. sale of hussmann equity investment during 2011, we completed the sale of a controlling interest of our hussmann refrigerated display case business (hussmann) to a newly-formed affiliate of private equity firm clayton dubilier &amp; rice, llc (cd&amp;r). per the terms of the agreement, cd&amp;r's ownership interest in hussmann at the acquisition date was 60% with the remaining 40% being retained by us. as a result, we accounted for our interest in hussmann using the equity method of accounting. on december 21, 2015, we announced we would sell our remaining equity interest in hussmann as part of a transaction in which panasonic corporation would acquire 100 percent of hussmann's outstanding shares. the transaction was completed on april 1, 2016. we received net proceeds of $422.5 million for our interest and recognized a gain of $397.8 million on the sale. provision for income taxes the 2016 effective tax rate was 16.2% which is lower than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the tax treatment of the hussmann gain. the gain, which is not subject to tax under the relevant local tax laws, decreased the effective tax rate by 4.8%. in addition, the reduction was also driven by earnings in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which in aggregate, have a lower effective tax rate. revenues from non-u.s. jurisdictions account for approximately 35% of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income is earned and taxed outside the u.s. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. when comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between u.s. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability on our overall effective tax rate. the 2015 effective tax rate was 43.3% which is higher than the u.s. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the $227 million charge taken to settle the irs agreement, which increased our effective tax rate by 18.1%. this effect was partially offset by a $65 million benefit from the settlement of an audit in a major tax jurisdiction, less a tax charge of $52 million from a change in permanent reinvestment assertions on earnings from certain of our subsidiaries in non-u.s. jurisdictions. discontinued operations the components of discontinued operations, net of tax for the years ended december 31 are as follows: in millions 2016 2015 period change pre-tax earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 28.1 $ (23.2 ) $ 51.3 tax benefit (expense) 4.8 (1.1 ) 5.9 discontinued operations, net of tax $ 32.9 $ (24.3 ) $ 57.2 discontinued operations are retained costs from previously sold businesses including postretirement benefits, product liability and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related). in addition, we include costs for the settlement and defense of asbestos-related claims, insurance settlements on asbestos-related matters and the revaluation of its liability for potential future claims. for the year ended december 31, 2016, ongoing costs were more than offset by asbestos-related settlements with various insurance carriers. a portion of the tax benefits (expense) in each period represent adjustments for certain tax matters associated with the 2013 spin-off of allegion. liquidity and capital resources we assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. in doing so, we review and analyze our current cash on hand, the number of days our sales are outstanding, inventory turns, capital expenditure commitments and income tax payments. our cash requirements primarily consist of the following: funding of working capital funding of capital expenditures debt service requirements our primary sources of liquidity include cash balances on hand, cash flows from operations, proceeds from debt offerings, commercial paper, and borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities. we earn a significant amount of our operating income in jurisdictions where it is deemed to be permanently reinvested. our most prominent jurisdiction of operation is the u.s. we expect existing cash and cash equivalents available to the u.s. operations, the cash generated by our u.s. operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital and debt markets will be sufficient to fund our u.s. 31 table of contents operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. in addition, we expect existing non-u.s. cash and cash equivalents and the cash generated by our non-u.s. operations will be sufficient to fund our non-u.s. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately $1.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents on hand, of which approximately $1.1 billion was held by non-u.s. subsidiaries. cash and cash equivalents held by our non-u.s. subsidiaries are generally available for use in our u.s. operations via intercompany loans, equity infusions or via distributions from direct or indirectly owned non-u.s. subsidiaries for which we do not elect permanent reinvestment. we currently have no plans to repatriate funds from subsidiaries for which we elect permanent reinvestment to fund our u.s. operations. however, if we decided to repatriate such funds to fund our u.s. operations, we would be required to accrue and pay applicable taxes. share repurchases are made from time to time in accordance with management's capital allocation strategy, subject to market conditions and regulatory requirements. in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program that began in april 2014 and was completed in the second quarter of 2017. in february 2017, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares under a share repurchase program upon completion of the prior share repurchase program. repurchases under this program began in may 2017 and total approximately $600 million at december 31, 2017. as a result, we have approximately $900 million remaining under this program. we repurchased approximately $1.0 billion of our ordinary shares during 2017. in august 2017, we announced an increase in our quarterly share dividend from $0.40 to $0.45 per ordinary share. this reflects a 12.5% increase that began with our september 2017 payment and a 55% increase since the beginning of 2016. in addition, we incur ongoing costs associated with restructuring initiatives intended to result in improved operating performance, profitability and working capital levels. actions associated with these initiatives may include workforce reduction, improving manufacturing productivity, realignment of management structures and rationalizing certain assets. we continue to be active with acquisitions. during 2017, we acquired several businesses, including channel acquisitions, that complement existing products and services further growing our product portfolio. we expect that our available cash flow, committed credit lines and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to fund share repurchases, the increased dividends, acquisitions and ongoing restructuring actions. liquidity the following table contains several key measures of our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended december 31: in millions 2017 2016 2015 cash and cash equivalents $ 1,549.4 $ 1,714.7 $ 736.8 short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt (1) 1,107.0 360.8 504.2 long-term debt 2,957.0 3,709.4 3,713.6 total debt 4,064.0 4,070.2 4,217.8 total ingersoll-rand plc shareholders' equity 7,140.3 6,643.8 5,816.7 total equity 7,206.9 6,718.3 5,879.2 debt-to-total capital ratio 36.1 % 37.7 % 41.8 % (1) during the third quarter of 2017, we reclassified our 6.875% senior notes of $750 million due august 2018 from noncurrent to current. we intend to refinance the notes prior to their maturity date. debt and credit facilities our short-term obligations primarily consists of current maturities of long-term debt. in addition, we have outstanding $343.0 million of fixed rate debentures that contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. if exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder's option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. we also maintain a commercial paper program which is used for general corporate purposes. under the program, the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, is $2.0 billion as of december 31, 2017 . we had no commercial paper outstanding at december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 . see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the terms of our short-term obligations. our long-term obligations primarily consist of long-term debt with final maturity dates ranging between 2019 and 2044. in addition, we maintain two 5-year, $1.0 billion revolving credit facilities. each senior unsecured credit facility, one of which matures in march 2019 and the other in march 2021, provides support for our commercial paper program and can be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. total commitments of $ 2.0 billion were unused at december 31, 2017 and 32 table of contents december 31, 2016 . see note 7 and note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the terms of our long-term obligations and their related guarantees. pension plans our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. we seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contribution and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. our approach to asset allocation is to increase fixed income assets as the plan's funded status improves. we monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. in addition, we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. none of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to the volatility in the markets. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding pensions. cash flows the following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended december 31, respectively. for additional details, please see the consolidated statements of cash flows in the consolidated financial statements. in millions 2017 2016 2015 net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities $ 1,561.6 $ 1,433.0 $ 923.5 net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (374.7 ) 240.1 (1,192.9 ) net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (1,432.5 ) (726.9 ) (527.6 ) operating activities net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2017 was $1,561.6 million , of which net income provided $1,642.1 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. changes in other assets and liabilities used $80.5 million . improvements in accounts payable were offset by higher accounts receivable and inventory balances. net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 was $1,433.0 million , of which net income provided $1,449.8 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. changes in other assets and liabilities used $16.8 million . improvements in accounts payable were offset by higher accounts receivable balances. net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 was $923.5 million , of which net income provided $1,228.9 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. changes in other assets and liabilities used $305.4 million which was primarily driven by the net cash outflow for the irs agreement of approximately $364 million and higher working capital balances. investing activities cash flows from investing activities represents inflows and outflows regarding the purchase and sale of assets. primary activities associated with these items include capital expenditures, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment, acquisitions and divestitures. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $374.7 million . the primary driver of the outflow is attributable to capital expenditures of $ 221.3 million . in addition, we acquired several businesses that complement existing products and services. cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $157.6 million during the year. net cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations for the year ended december 31, 2016 was $240.1 million . the primary driver of the balance is attributable to the proceeds of $422.5 million received from the sale of our hussmann equity interest during the year. this amount was partially offset by capital expenditures during the year. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $1,192.9 million . the primary driver of the outflow related to the acquisition of the engineered centrifugal compression business for approximately $850 million and the acquisition of frigoblock for approximately 100 million (approximately $113 million). in addition, capital expenditures contributed to the outflow during the year. financing activities cash flows from financing activities represent inflows and outflows that account for external activities affecting equity and debt. primary activities associated with these actions include paying dividends to shareholders, repurchasing our own shares, issuing our stock and debt transactions. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $1,432.5 million . primary drivers of the cash outflow related to the repurchase of 11.8 million ordinary shares and dividends paid to ordinary shareholders. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $726.9 million . primary drivers of the cash outflow related to the repurchase of 4.9 million ordinary shares and dividends paid to ordinary shareholders. in addition, we repaid our outstanding commercial paper balance during the year. net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations for the year ended december 31, 2015 was $527.6 million . primary drivers of the cash outflow includes dividends paid to ordinary shareholders and the repurchase of 4.4 million ordinary shares. 33 table of contents discontinued operations cash flows from discontinued operations primarily represent costs associated with postretirement benefits, product liability and legal costs (mostly asbestos-related) from previously sold businesses. net cash used in discontinued operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2017 was $38.1 million . ongoing costs were partially offset by asbestos-related settlements reached with various insurance carriers during the year. net cash provided by discontinued operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 was $88.9 million and included asbestos-related settlements reached with various insurance carriers during the year as well as a realized gain on the sale of property related to a previously sold business. these amounts more than offset ongoing costs. net cash used in discontinued operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2015 was $35.1 million and primarily related to ongoing costs. capital resources based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchase programs, upcoming debt maturities, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future. capital expenditures were $ 221.3 million , $ 182.7 million and $ 249.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs, provide environmental enhancements, upgrade information technology infrastructure and security and advanced technologies for existing facilities. the capital expenditure program for 2018 is estimated to be approximately $300 million, including amounts approved in prior periods. many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges. for financial market risk impacting the company, see item 7a. "quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk." capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper program. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2017 , our credit ratings were as follows: short-term long-term moody's p-2 baa2 standard and poor's a-2 bbb the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2017 , our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. 34 table of contents contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment period: in millions less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total short-term debt $ 6.7 $ $ $ $ 6.7 long-term debt 1,100.7 (a) 665.3 140.1 2,172.2 $ 4,078.3 interest payments on long-term debt 206.4 (b) 287.9 257.6 1,082.0 1,833.9 purchase obligations 866.0 866.0 operating leases 194.3 255.4 125.8 53.6 629.1 total contractual cash obligations $ 2,374.1 $ 1,208.6 $ 523.5 $ 3,307.8 $ 7,414.0 (a) includes $343.0 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. (b) includes nominal amount related to interest of short-term debt. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. pensions at december 31, 2017 , we had a net unfunded liability of $ 679.1 million , which consists of noncurrent pension assets of $ 61.7 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $ 740.8 million . it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $ 75.2 million to our plans worldwide in 2018 . the timing and amounts of future contributions are dependent upon the funding status of the plan, which is expected to vary as a result of changes in interest rates, returns on underlying assets, and other factors. therefore, pension contributions have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding pensions. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2017 , we had postretirement benefit obligations of $ 528.0 million . we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $ 49.4 million in 2018 . because benefit payments are not required to be funded in advance, and the timing and amounts of future payments are dependent on the cost of benefits for retirees covered by the plan, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding postretirement benefits other than pensions. income taxes at december 31, 2017 , we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $ 120.5 million and $ 32.5 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits. contingent liabilities we are involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding contingent liabilities. critical accounting policies management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states (gaap). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from estimates. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. 35 table of contents the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. allowance for doubtful accounts we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable which represents our best estimate of probable loss inherent in our accounts receivable portfolio. this estimate is based upon our two step policy that results in the total recorded allowance for doubtful accounts. the first step is to record a portfolio reserve based on the aging of the outstanding accounts receivable portfolio and our historical experience with our end markets, customer base and products. the second step is to create a specific reserve for significant accounts as to which the customer's ability to satisfy their financial obligation to us is in doubt due to circumstances such as bankruptcy, deteriorating operating results or financial position. in these circumstances, management uses its judgment to record an allowance based on the best estimate of probable loss, factoring in such considerations as the market value of collateral, if applicable. actual results could differ from those estimates. these estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically, and the effects of changes, if any, are reflected in the statement of operations in the period that they are determined. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. impairment of goodwill is assessed at the reporting unit level and begins with a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the goodwill impairment test under asc 350, "intangibles-goodwill and other," (asc 350). for those reporting units that bypass or fail the qualitative assessment, the test compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss will be recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill in that reporting unit. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value is determined using three valuation techniques: a discounted cash flow model (an income approach), a market-adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (a market approach), and a similar transactions method (also a market approach). the discounted cash flow approach relies on our estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. the earnings and revenue multiple approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. the similar transactions method considers prices paid in transactions that have recently occurred in our industry or in related industries. these methods are weighted 50%, 40% and 10%, respectively. impairment of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is first assessed using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. this assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset. for those indefinite-lived assets where it is required, a fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. the determination of the estimated fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. we developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2017, we calculated the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 13.0% and terminal growth rates ranging from 3.0% to 3.5%. under the guideline public company method, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 6.5 to 13.5 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 40%. a 36 table of contents significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 11.0%, terminal growth rate of 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 0.5% to 4.5%. for all tradenames, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 81%, with the exception of a recently acquired tradename. that tradename, reported within our climate segment, had an excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value of approximately 9% (5% in 2016) and an approximate carrying value of $16 million at december 31, 2017. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. we believe that our use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. loss contingencies liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business, including litigation and administrative proceedings, environmental and asbestos matters and product liability, product warranty, worker's compensation and other claims. we have recorded reserves in the financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience data depending on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances with consultation of legal counsel, internal and external consultants and engineers. subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, we believe our estimated reserves are reasonable and do not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows for any year. asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. we record a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. asbestos related defense costs are excluded from the asbestos claims liability and are recorded separately as services are incurred. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. we record certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax , as they relate to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with trane's asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries which are recorded within continuing operations. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized and earned when all of the following criteria are satisfied: (a) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; (b) the price is fixed or determinable; (c) collectability is reasonably assured; and (d) delivery has occurred or service has been rendered. delivery generally occurs when the title and the risks and rewards of ownership have substantially transferred to the customer. both the persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement and fixed or determinable price criteria are deemed to be satisfied upon receipt of an executed and legally binding sales agreement or contract that clearly defines the terms and conditions of the transaction including the respective obligations of the parties. if the defined terms and conditions allow variability in all or a component of the price, revenue is not recognized until such time that the price becomes fixed or determinable. at the point of sale, we validate that existence of an enforceable claim that requires payment within a reasonable amount of time and assess the collectability of that claim. if collectability is not deemed to be reasonably assured, then revenue recognition is deferred until such time that collectability becomes probable or cash is received. delivery is not considered to have occurred until the customer has taken title and assumed the risks and rewards of ownership. service and installation revenue are recognized when earned. in some instances, customer acceptance provisions are included in sales arrangements to give the buyer the ability to ensure the delivered product or service meets the criteria established in the order. in these instances, revenue recognition is deferred until the acceptance terms specified in the arrangement are fulfilled through customer acceptance or a demonstration that established criteria have been satisfied. if uncertainty exists about customer acceptance, revenue is not recognized until acceptance has occurred. we offer various sales incentive programs to our customers, dealers, and distributors. sales incentive programs do not preclude revenue recognition, but do require an accrual for the company's best estimate of expected activity. examples of the sales incentives that are accrued for as a contra receivable and sales deduction at the point of sale include, but are not limited to, discounts (i.e. net 30 type), coupons, and rebates where the customer does not have to provide any additional 37 table of contents requirements to receive the discount. sales returns and customer disputes involving a question of quantity or price are also accounted for as a reduction in revenue and a contra receivable. at december 31, 2017 and 2016, we had a customer claim accrual (contra receivable) of $3.2 million and $3.7 million , respectively. all other incentives or incentive programs where the customer is required to reach a certain sales level, remain a customer for a certain period of time, provide a rebate form or is subject to additional requirements are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and establishment of a liability. at december 31, 2017 and 2016, we had a sales incentive accrual of $107.3 million and $87.5 million , respectively. each of these accruals represents the best estimate we expect to pay related to previously sold units. these estimates are reviewed regularly for accuracy. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between our estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. we enter into maintenance and extended warranty contracts with customers. revenue related to these services is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, unless sufficient historical evidence indicates that the cost of providing these services is incurred on an other than straight-line basis. in these circumstances, revenue is recognized over the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing the service. we, primarily through our climate segment, provide equipment (e.g. hvac, controls), integrated solutions, and installation designed to customer specifications through construction-type contracts. the term of these types of contracts is typically less than one year, but can be as long as three years. revenues related to these contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with gaap. this measure of progress toward completion, utilized to recognize sales and profits, is based on the proportion of actual cost incurred to date as compared to the total estimate of contract costs at completion. the timing of revenue recognition often differs from the invoicing schedule to the customer, with revenue recognition in advance of customer invoicing recorded to unbilled accounts receivable and invoicing in advance of revenue recognition recorded to deferred revenue. at december 31, 2017 , all recorded receivables (billed and unbilled) are due within one year. we re-evaluate our contract estimates periodically and reflect changes in estimates in the current period using the cumulative catch-up method. these periodic reviews have not historically resulted in significant adjustments. if estimated contract costs are in excess of contract revenues, then the excess costs are accrued. we enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple elements, such as equipment, installation and service revenue. for multiple element arrangements, each element is evaluated to determine the separate units of accounting. the total arrangement consideration is then allocated to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling price at the inception of the arrangement. the relative selling price is determined using vendor specific objective evidence (vsoe) of selling price, if it exists; otherwise, third-party evidence (tpe) of selling price is used. if neither vsoe nor tpe of selling price exists for a deliverable, a best estimate of the selling price is developed for that deliverable. we primarily utilize vsoe to determine its relative selling price. we recognize revenue for delivered elements when the delivered item has stand-alone value to the customer, the basic revenue recognition criteria have been met, and only customary refund or return rights related to the delivered elements exist. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-u.s. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. we regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. we will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. employee benefit plans we provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with gaap. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over 38 table of contents future periods. we review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan's investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of each measurement date. we believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the expected 2018 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $8.4 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by approximately $7.5 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would decrease expected 2018 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.8 million and a 1.0% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate would increase the service and interest cost by approximately $0.7 million. recent accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. many of our non-u.s. operations have a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar, and their results are translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes. therefore, our reported results will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the respective foreign currency. our largest concentration of revenues from non-u.s. operations as of december 31, 2017 are in euros and chinese yuan. a hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in the average exchange rate used to translate net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017 from either euros or chinese yuan-based operations into u.s. dollars would not have a material impact on our financial statements. we use derivative instruments to hedge those material exposures that cannot be naturally offset. the instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2017 , a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $ 58.3 million , as compared with $ 81.0 million at december 31, 2016 . these amounts, when realized, would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying transactions. commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2017 . interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations. 39 table of contentsrisk factors 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 35 "quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk." capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper program. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2018 , our credit ratings were as follows: short-term long-term moody's p-2 baa2 standard and poor's a-2 bbb the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2018 , our debt-to-total capital ratio was 36.7% and significantly beneath this limit. contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment period: in millions less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total short-term debt $ $ $ $ $ long-term debt 350.6 (a) 740.2 715.0 2,314.7 $ 4,120.5 interest payments on long-term debt 186.5 355.1 298.6 1,394.0 2,234.2 purchase obligations 946.0 946.0 operating leases 197.1 259.4 110.6 42.7 609.8 total contractual cash obligations $ 1,680.2 $ 1,354.7 $ 1,124.2 $ 3,751.4 $ 7,910.5 (a) includes $343.0 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. 31 table of contents pensions at december 31, 2018 , we had a net unfunded liability of $ 698.4 million , which consists of noncurrent pension assets of $ 49.9 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $ 748.3 million . it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $ 104 million to our plans worldwide in 2019 . the timing and amounts of future contributions are dependent upon the funding status of the plan, which is expected to vary as a result of changes in interest rates, returns on underlying assets, and other factors. therefore, pension contributions have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding pensions. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2018 , we had postretirement benefit obligations of $ 442.7 million . we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $ 46 million in 2019 . because benefit payments are not required to be funded in advance, and the timing and amounts of future payments are dependent on the cost of benefits for retirees covered by the plan, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding postretirement benefits other than pensions. income taxes at december 31, 2018 , we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $ 83.0 million and $ 20.7 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits. contingent liabilities we are involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding contingent liabilities. critical accounting policies management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states (gaap). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from these estimates. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. allowance for doubtful accounts we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable which represents our best estimate of probable loss inherent in our accounts receivable portfolio. this estimate is based upon our two step policy that results in the total recorded allowance for doubtful accounts. the first step is to record a portfolio reserve based on the aging of the outstanding accounts receivable portfolio and our historical experience with our end markets, customer base and products. the second step is to create a specific reserve for significant accounts as to which the customer's ability to satisfy their financial obligation to us is in doubt due to circumstances such as bankruptcy, deteriorating operating results or financial position. in these circumstances, management uses its judgment to record an allowance based on the best estimate of probable loss, factoring in such considerations as the market value of collateral, if applicable. actual results could differ from those estimates. these estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically, and the effects of changes, if any, are reflected in the statement of operations in the period that they are determined. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. these assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. 32 table of contents impairment of goodwill is assessed at the reporting unit level and begins with a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the goodwill impairment test under asc 350, "intangibles-goodwill and other," (asc 350). for those reporting units that bypass or fail the qualitative assessment, the test compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill in that reporting unit. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value is determined using three valuation techniques: a discounted cash flow model (an income approach), a market-adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (a market approach), and a similar transactions method (also a market approach). the discounted cash flow approach relies on our estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. the earnings and revenue multiple approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. the similar transactions method considers prices paid in transactions that have recently occurred in our industry or in related industries. these valuation techniques are weighted 50%, 40% and 10%, respectively. impairment of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is first assessed using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. this assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset. for those indefinite-lived assets where it is required, a fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value would be recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. the determination of the estimated fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. we developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2018, we calculated the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations and further outlined below, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. goodwill - under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 11.0% to 14.0% and terminal growth rates ranging from 3.0% to 4.5%. under the guideline public company method, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 6.5 to 13.5 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except one in latin america, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 75%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. the one reporting unit with a percentage of carrying value less than 75% exceeded its carrying value by 1.1%. the reporting unit, reported within the climate segment, has approximately $190 million of goodwill at the testing date. with all other assumptions and trends remaining constant for each independent variable, a 0.5% increase in the discount rate combined with a 0.5% decrease in the long-term growth rate would result in an approximate $15 million impairment for this reporting unit. other indefinite-lived intangible assets - in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 11.0% to 15.5%, terminal growth rates of 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 0.5% to 4.5%. for all tradenames, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 74%, with the exception of one. the tradename, reported within our climate segment, had an excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value of approximately 19% (9% in 2017) and an approximate carrying value of $15 million at december 31, 2018. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. in addition, the company has three recently acquired tradenames now subject to our annual impairment test. combined, these tradenames have a carrying value of approximately $14 million, each with an estimated fair value over carrying value of under 10% 33 table of contents as expected. due to their recent valuation upon acquisition, small variations in our estimates and assumptions could impact their fair value. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. loss contingencies liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business, including litigation and administrative proceedings, environmental and asbestos matters and product liability, product warranty, worker's compensation and other claims. we have recorded reserves in the financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience data depending on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances with consultation of legal counsel, internal and external consultants and engineers. subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, we believe our estimated reserves are reasonable and do not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows for any year. asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. we record a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. asbestos-related defense costs are excluded from the asbestos claims liability and are recorded separately as services are incurred. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. we record certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax , as they relate to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with trane's asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries which are recorded within continuing operations. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized when control of a good or service promised in a contract (i.e., performance obligation) is transferred to a customer. control is obtained when a customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from that good or service. a majority of our revenues are recognized at a point-in-time as control is transferred at a distinct point in time per the terms of a contract. however, a portion of our revenues are recognized over time as the customer simultaneously receives control as we perform work under a contract. we adopted asc 606 on january 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. refer to note 2, "summary of significant accounting policies" and note 11, "revenue" for additional information related to the adoption of asc 606. the transaction price allocated to performance obligations reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from a customer. to determine the transaction price, variable and noncash consideration are assessed as well as whether a significant financing component exists. our contracts with customers, dealers and distributors include several forms of sales incentive programs (variable consideration) which are estimated and included in the transaction price. they include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, and rebates where the customer does not have to provide any additional requirements to receive the discount. we record an accrual (contra receivable) and a sales deduction for our best estimate determined using the expected value method. in addition, sales returns and customer disputes involving a question of quantity or price are also accounted for as variable consideration. all other incentives or incentive programs where the customer is required to reach a certain sales level, remain a customer for a certain period of time, provide a rebate form or is subject to additional requirements are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and establishment of a liability for our best estimate determined using the expected value method. we consider historical data in determining our best estimates of variable consideration. these estimates are reviewed regularly for appropriateness, considering also whether the estimates should be constrained in order to avoid a significant reversal of revenue recognition in a future period. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates of variable consideration, the revisions are included in the results for the period in which they become known through a cumulative effect adjustment to revenue. we enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple goods and services, such as equipment, installation and extended warranties. for these arrangements, each good or service is evaluated to determine whether it represents a distinct performance obligation. the total transaction price is then allocated to the distinct performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling price at the inception of the arrangement. if available, we utilize observable prices for goods or services sold separately to similar customers in similar circumstances to determine its relative standalone selling price. otherwise, list prices are used if they are determined to be representative of standalone selling prices. if neither of these items are available at contract inception, judgment may be required and we will estimate standalone selling price based on our best estimate. we recognize revenue for delivered goods or services when the delivered good or service is distinct, 34 table of contents control of the good or service has transferred to the customer, and only customary refund or return rights related to the goods or services exist. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. we regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. we will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. employee benefit plans we provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with gaap. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. we review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan's investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of each measurement date. we believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the expected 2019 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $7.2 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by approximately $6.7 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would increase expected 2019 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.7 million and a 1.0% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate would increase the service and interest cost by approximately $0.4 million. recent accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. many of our non-u.s. operations have a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar, and their results are translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes. therefore, our reported results will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the respective foreign currency. our largest concentration of revenues from non-u.s. operations as of 35 table of contents december 31, 2018 are in euros and chinese yuan. a hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in the average exchange rate used to translate net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2018 from either euros or chinese yuan-based operations into u.s. dollars would not have a material impact on our financial statements. we use derivative instruments to hedge those material exposures that cannot be naturally offset. the instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, primarily involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2018 , a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $ 17.6 million , as compared with $ 58.3 million at december 31, 2017 . these amounts, when realized, would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying transactions. commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2018 . interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations. 36 table of contentsrisk factors 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 34 "quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk." capitalization in addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our commercial paper program. our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the commercial paper program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. as of december 31, 2019 , our credit ratings were as follows, remaining unchanged from 2018 : short-term long-term moody's p-2 baa2 standard and poor's a-2 bbb the credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. as of december 31, 2019 , our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment period: in millions less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years more than 5 years total long-term debt $ 650.5 (a) $ 440.2 $ 1,215.0 $ 3,307.2 $ 5,612.9 interest payments on long-term debt 240.3 446.7 384.3 1,802.9 2,874.2 purchase obligations 1,020.0 1,020.0 operating leases 192.3 258.4 115.3 68.1 634.1 total contractual cash obligations $ 2,103.1 $ 1,145.3 $ 1,714.6 $ 5,178.2 $ 10,141.2 (a) includes $343.0 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. the scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. future expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, income taxes, environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above. 30 table of contents pensions at december 31, 2019 , we had a net unfunded liability of $ 714.4 million , which consists of noncurrent pension assets of $ 50.4 million and current and non-current pension benefit liabilities of $ 764.8 million . it is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. we currently project that we will contribute approximately $ 90 million to our enterprise plans worldwide in 2020 . the timing and amounts of future contributions are dependent upon the funding status of the plan, which is expected to vary as a result of changes in interest rates, returns on underlying assets, and other factors. therefore, pension contributions have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding pensions. postretirement benefits other than pensions at december 31, 2019 , we had postretirement benefit obligations of $ 428.8 million . we fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and medicare part d subsidy, are expected to be approximately $ 42 million in 2020 . because benefit payments are not required to be funded in advance, and the timing and amounts of future payments are dependent on the cost of benefits for retirees covered by the plan, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding postretirement benefits other than pensions. income taxes at december 31, 2019 , we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $ 78.2 million and $ 16.9 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax. the liability has been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits. contingent liabilities we are involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related, and product liability matters. we believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. because the timing and amounts of potential future cash flows are uncertain, they have been excluded from the preceding table. see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding contingent liabilities. critical accounting policies management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states (gaap). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. these estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. actual results may differ from these estimates. if updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. the following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets we have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. these assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. the determination of estimated fair value requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. we developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. for our annual impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2019, we calculated the fair value for each of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangibles. based on the results of these calculations and further outlined below, we determined that the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying values. the estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. goodwill - impairment of goodwill is assessed at the reporting unit level and begins with a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for 31 table of contents determining whether it is necessary to perform the goodwill impairment test under asc 350, "intangibles-goodwill and other" (asc 350). for those reporting units that bypass or fail the qualitative assessment, the test compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. to the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill in that reporting unit. as quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value is determined using three valuation techniques: a discounted cash flow model (an income approach), a market-adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (a market approach), and a similar transactions method (also a market approach). the discounted cash flow approach relies on our estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. the earnings and revenue multiple approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. the similar transactions method considers prices paid in transactions that have recently occurred in our industry or in related industries. these valuation techniques are weighted 50%, 40% and 10%, respectively. under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 13.0% and terminal growth rates ranging from 2.0% to 3.5%. under the guideline public company method, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 5.5 to 13.0 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) based on the market information of comparable companies. additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. for all reporting units except one in latin america, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) was a minimum of 32%. the one reporting unit with a percentage of carrying value less than 32% exceeded its carrying value by 5.4%. the reporting unit, reported within the climate segment, has approximately $190 million of goodwill at the testing date. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. other indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is first assessed using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. this assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset. for those indefinite-lived assets where it is required, a fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. the present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value would be recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. in testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 14.5%, terminal growth rates of 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 0.5% to 4.5%. a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles long-lived assets and finite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows can be generated. impairment in the carrying value of an asset would be recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset are less than its carrying value. the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined by an estimate of discounted cash flows. changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. business combinations in accordance with asc 805, "business combinations" (asc 805), acquisitions are recorded using the acquisition method of accounting. we include the operating results of acquired entities from their respective dates of acquisition.we recognize and measure the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest as of the acquisition date fair value. the valuation of intangible assets was determined using an income approach methodology. our key assumptions used in valuing the intangible assets include projected future revenues, customer attrition rates, royalty rates, tax rates and discount rates. the excess, if any, of total consideration transferred in a business combination over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest is recognized as goodwill. costs incurred as a result of a business combination other than costs related to the issuance of debt or equity securities are recorded in the period the costs are incurred. 32 table of contents asbestos matters certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. we record a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. we engage an outside expert to perform a detailed analysis and project an estimated range of the total liability for pending and unasserted future asbestos-related claims. in accordance with asc 450, "contingencies" (asc 450), we record the liability at the low end of the range as we believe that no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount. our key assumptions underlying the estimated asbestos-related liabilities include the number of people occupationally exposed and likely to develop asbestos-related diseases such as mesothelioma and lung cancer, the number of people likely to file an asbestos-related personal injury claim against us, the average settlement and resolution of each claim and the percentage of claims resolved with no payment. asbestos-related defense costs are excluded from the asbestos claims liability and are recorded separately as services are incurred. none of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. we record certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within discontinued operations, net of tax , as they relate to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with trane's asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries which are recorded within continuing operations. see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding asbestos-related matters. revenue recognition revenue is recognized when control of a good or service promised in a contract (i.e., performance obligation) is transferred to a customer. control is obtained when a customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from that good or service. a majority of our revenues are recognized at a point-in-time as control is transferred at a distinct point in time per the terms of a contract. however, a portion of our revenues are recognized over time as the customer simultaneously receives control as we perform work under a contract. for these arrangements, the cost-to-cost input method is used as it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incurs costs. we adopted asu no. 2014-09, "revenue from contracts with customers" (asc 606), on january 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. refer to note 3, "summary of significant accounting policies" and note 13, "revenue" for additional information related to the adoption of asc 606. the transaction price allocated to performance obligations reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from a customer. to determine the transaction price, variable and noncash consideration are assessed as well as whether a significant financing component exists. we include variable consideration in the estimated transaction price when it is probable that significant reversal of revenue recognized would not occur when the uncertainty associated with variable consideration is subsequently resolved. we consider historical data in determining our best estimates of variable consideration, and the related accruals are recorded using the expected value method. we enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple goods and services, such as equipment, installation and extended warranties. for these arrangements, each good or service is evaluated to determine whether it represents a distinct performance obligation and whether the sales price for each obligation is representative of standalone selling price. if available, we utilize observable prices for goods or services sold separately to similar customers in similar circumstances to evaluate relative standalone selling price. list prices are used if they are determined to be representative of standalone selling prices. where necessary, we ensure that the total transaction price is then allocated to the distinct performance obligations based on the determination of their relative standalone selling price at the inception of the arrangement. we recognize revenue for delivered goods or services when the delivered good or service is distinct, control of the good or service has transferred to the customer, and only customary refund or return rights related to the goods or services exist. for extended warranties and long-term service agreements, revenue for these distinct performance obligations are recognized over time on a straight-line basis over the respective contract term. income taxes deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. we regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. in addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. we believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. we will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. to the extent that the ultimate results differ from our 33 table of contents original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. employee benefit plans we provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with gaap. actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. we review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. the rate of compensation increase is dependent on expected future compensation levels. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan's investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. the expected long-term rate of return is determined as of each measurement date. we believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. estimated sensitivities to the expected 2020 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $8.8 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by approximately $7.7 million. a 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would increase expected 2020 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.7 million and a 1.0% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate would increase the service and interest cost by approximately $0.5 million. recent accounting pronouncements see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. foreign currency exposures we have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. as a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the u.s. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. many of our non-u.s. operations have a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar, and their results are translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes. therefore, our reported results will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the respective foreign currency. our largest concentration of revenues from non-u.s. operations as of december 31, 2019 are in euros and chinese yuan. a hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in the average exchange rate used to translate net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2019 from either euros or chinese yuan-based operations into u.s. dollars would not have a material impact on our financial statements. we use derivative instruments to hedge those material exposures that cannot be naturally offset. the instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, primarily involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. to minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. we evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2019 , a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $ 23.2 million , as compared with $ 17.6 million at december 31, 2018 . these amounts, when realized, would be offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying transactions. commodity price exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. we do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at december 31, 2019 . 34 table of contents interest rate exposure our debt portfolio mainly consists of fixed-rate instruments, and therefore any fluctuation in market interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations. 35 table of contents