quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26risk factors 9 risk factors certain factors affecting the company's performance in addition to the other information provided in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels and demand for housing. a prolonged decline in spending for replacement floor covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the floor covering industry in which the company participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending and interest rate levels. the company derives a majority of the company's sales from the replacement segment of the market. therefore, economic changes that result in a prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the floor covering industry is highly dependent on construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, a prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the construction industry has experienced significant downturns in the past, which have adversely affected suppliers to the industry. the industry could experience similar downturns in the future, which could have a negative impact on the company's business. the company may be unable to pass increases in the costs of raw materials and fuel-related costs on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's profitability. the prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary with market conditions. as a result of recent hurricanes and other general economic factors, the company's costs of carpet raw materials and fuel-related costs are currently higher than historical averages and may remain so indefinitely. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in the costs of raw materials and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company's products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company's profitability may be materially adversely affected. the company faces intense competition in the industry, which could decrease demand for the company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's profitability. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. some of the company's competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the company does. maintaining the company's competitive position may require substantial investments in the company's product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company's products or force the company to lower prices. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company may not be able to successfully integrate unilin or other acquisitions that the company may make in the future. the process of combining the businesses of unilin with the company's existing businesses involves risks. the company will face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the company's organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. these challenges will result principally because the two companies currently maintain executive offices in different locations; manufacture and sell different types of products through different distribution channels; conduct business from various locations; maintain different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and have different employment and compensation arrangements for their employees. 10 in addition, the majority of unilin's operating facilities are located in europe, where the company has not previously operated a manufacturing facility. as a result, the integration will be complex and will require additional attention from members of management. the diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the company's revenues, level of expenses and operating results. the company may face similar challenges in combining the company's businesses with any other businesses that the company acquires in the future. failure to successfully manage and integrate unilin with the company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the unilin acquisition or any future acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity or otherwise not perform as expected, may adversely impact the company's financial condition and results of operations. the company has incurred, and will continue to incur, certain liabilities and expenses in connection with the unilin acquisition or any future acquisitions. the company has not yet completed the testing of the adequacy of unilin's internal control over financial reporting, and it is possible that the company's testing or that of the company's independent auditors in connection with the audit of the company's financial results for the year ended december 31, 2006, will reveal material weaknesses in unilin's internal control over financial reporting. as part of the integration of unilin, the company is in the process of documenting and testing of the unilin's internal control over financial reporting to allow management and the company's independent registered public accounting firm to report in 2006 on the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting as it pertains to unilin's operations. the adequacy of unilin's internal control over financial reporting has not previously been attested to by any independent accounting firm, as no such attestation was required by virtue of unilin's status as a foreign, privately-held company. the company anticipates completing the testing of unilin's internal control over financial reporting by the end of 2006. the company's testing, or the subsequent testing by the company's independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in the company's internal control over financial reporting. in that event, the company's management may not be able to report that the company's internal control over financial reporting is effective, and the company's auditors will not be able to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. as part of the company's business strategy, the company intends to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses. although the company regularly evaluates acquisition opportunities, the company may not be able successfully to identify suitable acquisition candidates; to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund acquisitions; to complete acquisitions; or to manage profitably acquired businesses. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the principal raw materials used in the company's manufacturing operations include nylon, polyester and polypropylene resins and fibers and carpet backings, which are used primarily in the company's carpet and rugs business; talc, clay, nepheline syenite and various glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the company's ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the company's laminate flooring business; and other materials. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials used in the company's business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials would disrupt the company's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. 11 the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to claims and liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could be significant. the company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties. the nature of the company's operations, including the potential discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. the company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims. changes in international trade laws and in the business, political and regulatory environment in mexico and europe could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company's monterrey, mexico manufacturing facility and the company's manufacturing facilities in europe represent a significant portion of the company's total manufacturing capacity for ceramic tile and laminate flooring, respectively. in addition, as a result of the unilin acquisition, the company now has more significant general operations abroad, particularly in europe. accordingly, an event that has a material adverse impact on the company's mexican operations could have a material adverse effect on the company's tile operations as a whole. similarly, an event that has a material adverse impact on the company's european operations could have a material adverse effect on the company's laminate flooring operations, as a whole. the business, regulatory and political environments in mexico and in europe differ from those in the united states, and the company's mexican and european operations are exposed to legal, currency, tax, political, and economic risks specific to the countries in which they occur, particularly with respect to labor regulations, which tend to be more stringent in europe and, to a lesser extent, mexico. the company cannot assure investors that the company will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company's operations or upon the company's financial condition and results of operations. the company could face increased competition as a result of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (&quot;gatt&quot;) and the north american free trade agreement (&quot;nafta&quot;). the company is uncertain what effect reduced import duties under gatt may have on the company's operations, although these reduced rates may stimulate additional competition from manufacturers that export ceramic tile to the united states. although nafta lowers the tariffs imposed on the company's ceramic tile manufactured in mexico and sold in the united states and will eliminate such tariffs entirely on january 1, 2008, it may also stimulate competition in the united states and canada from manufacturers located in mexico. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company's financial periods. the results of the company's foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for the statement of earnings accounts using the company's weighted average rates during the period. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. although the company has not yet experienced material losses due to foreign currency fluctuation, the company may not be able to manage effectively the company's currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of the company's debt and results of operations and affect comparability of the company's results between financial periods. 12 if the company is unable to protect the company's intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to the company's patented laminate flooring technology and the company's registered trademarks, the company's business and prospects could be harmed. the future success and competitive position of certain of the company's businesses, particularly the company's laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company's ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in the company's principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the united states and countries in europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company's employees, to protect that technology. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company's products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic &reg; family of patents, which protects unilin's interlocking laminate flooring panel technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company's pending patent applications will be approved. in addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the company's filings, could render the company's intellectual property less valuable. furthermore, despite the company's efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm the company's business. in addition, if the company does not obtain sufficient protection for the company's intellectual property, the company's competitiveness in the markets it serves could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company's growth and future revenue. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company's pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the united states and in other countries could limit the company's ability to protect the company's trademarks and impede the company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. the company requires third parties with access to the company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company's trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company's confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company's growth and future revenue. companies may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company's products. the company has in the past had companies claim that certain technologies incorporated in the company's products infringe their patent rights. there can be no assurance that the company will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that the company's products infringe, or may infringe, those parties' intellectual property rights. the company cannot be certain that the company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the united states and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company's products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. 13 furthermore, the company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the company's proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. likewise, the company may have similar claims brought against it by competitors. litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the company and divert the efforts of the company's technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the company's favor. in the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorneys fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses to disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company's business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this annual report on form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, proposed acquisitions, and similar matters, and those that include the words &quot;believes,&quot; &quot;anticipates,&quot; &quot;forecast,&quot; &quot;estimates&quot; or similar expressions constitute &quot;forward-looking statements&quot; within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in industry conditions; competition; raw material prices; energy costs; timing and level of capital expenditures; integration of acquisitions; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk's sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial exposures are managed as an integral part of the company's risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of the exchange rate and natural gas markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. natural gas risk management the company uses a combination of natural gas futures contracts and long-term supply agreements to manage unanticipated changes in natural gas prices. the contracts are based on forecasted usage of natural gas measured in million british thermal units (&quot;mmbtu&quot;). the company has designated the natural gas futures contracts as cash flow hedges. the outstanding contracts are valued at market with the offset applied to other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes and any hedge ineffectiveness. any gain or loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in cost of goods sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. at december 31, 2005, the company had natural gas contracts that mature from january 2006 to october 2006 with an aggregate notional amount of approximately 660,000 mmbtu's. the fair value of these contracts was an asset of $1.9 million. at december 31, 2004, the company had natural gas contracts that matured from january 2005 to march 2005 with an aggregate notional amount of approximately 1 million mmbtu's. the fair value of these contracts was a liability of $1.3 million. the offset to these assets is recorded in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes. the ineffective portion of the derivative is recognized directly in the cost of goods sold within the consolidated statements of earnings and was not significant for the periods reported. the amount that the company anticipates will be reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income in the next twelve months is a gain of approximately $1.9 million. 25 the company's natural gas long-term supply agreements are accounted for under the normal purchases provision within sfas no. 133 and its amendments. at december 31, 2005, the company had normal purchase commitments of approximately 1.8 million mmbtu's for periods maturing from january 2006 through october 2006. the contracted value of these commitments was approximately $17.2 million and the fair value of these commitments was approximately $20.5 million, at december 31, 2005. at december 31, 2004, the company had normal purchase commitments of approximately 1.9 million mmbtu's for periods maturing from january 2005 through march 2006. the contracted value of these commitments was approximately $9.9 million and the fair value of these commitments was approximately $11.9 million, at december 31, 2004. foreign currency rate management the company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign denominated costs associated with its operations in mexico. the objective of these transactions is to reduce volatility of exchange rates where these operations are located by fixing a portion of their costs in u.s. currency. accordingly, these contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges. gains and losses are reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in cost of goods sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. the company had forward contracts to purchase approximately 8 million mexican pesos at december 31, 2005. the aggregate u.s. dollar value of these contracts at december 31, 2005 was approximately $0.7 million. the contracts are marked to market in other current liabilities with the offset to other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes. unrealized losses for the year ended december 31, 2005 were not significant. the company had no forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2004. the company also had forward exchange contracts to sell the british pound and canadian dollar for a notional amount of $5.6 million at december 31, 2005. the contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting and are marked to market in other expenses at the end of each reporting period. the change in fair value is recorded in other expense and the contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting. the impact of the change in fair value on the statements of operations was not significant for the period ended december 31, 2005. 26risk factors 9 risk factors certain factors affecting the company's performance in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the company's common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the downturn in the u.s. and global economies, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company's business. although these difficult economic conditions have improved, there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate further. further, significant or prolonged declines in such economies or in spending for replacement floor covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the floor covering industry in which the company participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the company derives a majority of its sales from the replacement segment of the market. therefore, economic changes that result in a significant or prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the floor covering industry is highly dependent on construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature and recently experienced a downturn. the downturn in the u.s. and global economies, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company's business. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities lagged during the downturn. although the difficult economic conditions have improved, there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate in the foreseeable future. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company's products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company's business may be materially adversely affected. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry that could decrease demand for the company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. some of the company's competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the company does. maintaining the company's competitive position may require substantial investments in the company's product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company's products or force the company to lower prices. any of these factors or others may impact demand which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. uncertainty in the credit market or downturns in the global economy and the company's business could affect the company's overall availability and cost of credit. uncertainty in the credit markets could affect the overall availability and cost of credit. despite recent improvement in overall economic conditions, market conditions could impact the company's ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness, and the cost and terms of it, remains uncertain. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for the company's products and on its financial condition and operating results. further, these generally negative economic and business conditions may factor into the company's periodic 9 table of contents index to financial statements credit ratings assessment by moody's investors service, inc. ("moody's"), standard &amp; poor's financial services, llc ("s&amp;p") and fitch, inc. a rating agency's evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include scale and diversification, brand strength, profitability, leverage, liquidity and interest coverage. any future downgrades in the company's credit ratings could increase the cost of its existing credit and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. a downgrade of the company's credit rating by moody's or s&amp;p would increase interest expense on the company's senior unsecured $900.0 million notes by 25 basis points per downgrade. the company can provide no assurances that downgrades will not occur. if the company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in its existing credit facilities, it may be required to repay borrowings under the credit facilities prior to their maturity and may lose access to the credit facilities for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. on july 8, 2011, the company entered into a $900.0 million five-year, senior, secured revolving credit facility (the senior credit facility ). on january 20, 2012, the company entered into an amendment to the senior credit facility that provides for an incremental term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $150.0 million. as of december 31, 2012 , the amount utilized under the senior credit facility including the term loan was $251.2 million resulting in a total of $793.1 million available under the senior credit facility. the amount utilized included $153.9 million of borrowings, $46.8 million of standby letters of credit guaranteeing the company's industrial revenue bonds and $50.5 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. in addition, on december 19, 2012, the company entered into a three-year on-balance sheet u.s. trade accounts receivable securitization agreement (the "securitization facility") that allows the company to borrow up to $300 million based on available accounts receivable and is secured by the company's u.s. trade accounts receivable. at december 31, 2012, the amount utilized under the securitization facility was $280.0 million . during the term of the credit facilities, if the company's cash flow is worse than expected or the u.s. trade accounts receivables are lower than expected, the company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. if the company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, it could materially adversely affect the company's ability to repay its indebtedness and otherwise have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. additionally, the credit facilities include certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the company's financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, investments, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the company's business. many of these limitations are subject to numerous exceptions. the company is also required to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated net leverage ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0 for the senior credit facility, each as of the last day of any fiscal quarter and as defined in the senior credit facility. a failure to comply with the obligations contained in our current or future credit facilities or indentures relating to our outstanding public debt could result in an event of default or an acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. we cannot be certain that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the principal raw materials used in the company's manufacturing operations include nylon, polypropylene, triexta and polyester resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the company's carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the company's ceramic tile business; and wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the company's laminate flooring business. in addition, the company sources finished goods as well. for certain of such raw materials and sourced products, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company's relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the company to purchase more expensive alternatives. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in the company's business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the company's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company's financial periods. 10 table of contents index to financial statements the results of the company's foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect as of the balance sheet date and for the statement of operations accounts using, principally, the company's average rates during the period. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company's currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company's results between financial periods. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. the company has typically grown its business through acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. the combination of an acquired company's business with the company's existing businesses involves risks. the company cannot be assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of goodwill and intangible asset impairment, other asset impairments, increased interest costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of debt. the company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the company's organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. these challenges may result in: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees. the diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the company's revenues, level of expenses and operating results. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity, or otherwise perform as expected, may have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. the controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. as part of the company's business strategy, the company intends to continue to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. although the company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities, to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the company's existing businesses, or to manage profitably acquired businesses or strategic investments. the company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. the company's international activities are significant to its manufacturing capacity, revenues and profits, and the company is further expanding internationally. the company increasingly sells products, operates plants and invests in companies in other 11 table of contents index to financial statements parts of the world. currently, the company has significant operations in europe, malaysia and australia for its unilin division (including belgium, netherlands, france, sweden and russia) and mexico for its ceramic tile business, which will expand to western europe and russia following the acquisition of the marazzi group. in addition, the company has invested in joint ventures in brazil and china related to laminate flooring and ceramic tile, respectively. the business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the u.s. the company's international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; political, legal and economic instability; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; inflation; differing labor laws and changes in those laws; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; tax inefficiencies and currency exchange controls that may adversely impact its ability to repatriate cash from non-u.s. subsidiaries; and compliance with laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials. the company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company's operations or upon its financial condition and results of operations. negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. we are subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. the tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation. in calculating the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of profit before tax among these many jurisdictions. however, it also includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results of operations and tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of our tax exposures. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company and its customers and suppliers are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements. the company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with and enforcement of increasingly numerous and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the united states. further, the company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and 12 table of contents index to financial statements finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. for example, enactment of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the u.s. congress or various states, or the adoption of regulations by the environmental protection agency and analogous state or foreign governmental agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which the company conducts business could have an adverse effect on its operations and demand for its products. the company's manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. increased regulation of energy use to address the possible emission of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the nature of the company's business and operations, including the potential discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. the company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims. the company's business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events. many of the company's business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. these facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. the company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business relating to its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in the ordinary course of business, the company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to the company. such matters could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition if the company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the company or settlements relating to these matters. although the company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. further, the company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the company, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect the company's reputation or the reputation and sales of its products. the company's inability to protect its intellectual property rights or collect license revenues, particularly with respect to the company's patented laminate flooring technology and its registered trademarks, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the future success and competitive position of certain of the company's businesses, particularly the company's laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company's ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the company's principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s. and countries in europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company's employees, to protect that technology. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company's products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic and pergo family of patents, which protects its interlocking laminate flooring technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company's pending patent applications will be approved. in addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the company's filings, could render the company's intellectual property less valuable. furthermore, despite the company's efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization through license agreements, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company's business. in addition, if the company does not 13 table of contents index to financial statements obtain sufficient protection for the company's intellectual property, the company's competitiveness in the markets it serves could be significantly impaired, which could have a material effect on the company's business. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company's pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company's ability to protect the company's trademarks and impede the company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the company's business. the company generates license revenue from certain patents in the uniclic and pergo families that are not expected to expire until 2017 and 2021, respectively. the company continues to develop new sources of revenue to offset the expiration in its uniclic and pergo family of patents. the failure to develop alternative revenues could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company's trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company's confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company's growth and future revenue. companies may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company's products. in the past, companies have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company's products infringe their patent rights. there can be no assurance that the company will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that the company's products infringe, or may infringe, those parties' intellectual property rights. the company cannot be certain that the company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the u.s. and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company's products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. furthermore, the company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the company's proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. likewise, the company may have similar claims brought against it by competitors. litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the company and divert the efforts of the company's technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the company's favor. in the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney's fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses authorizing the use of infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses for disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company's business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. the long-term performance of the company's business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, the company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design and innovation and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. the company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the company's competitive position and its operating results. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. 14 table of contents index to financial statements the company's stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. the company's efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management's time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. declines in the company's business conditions may result in an impairment of the company's tangible and intangible assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a significant or prolonged decrease in the company's market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its tangible and intangible assets which results when the carrying value of the company's assets exceed their fair value. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words could, should, believes, anticipates, expects and estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation in raw material prices and other input costs; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the company's products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax, product and other claims; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk's sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. financial exposures to these risks are monitored as an integral part of the company's risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. from time to time, the company enters into derivative contracts to manage these risks. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. the company did not have any derivative contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 . as of december 31, 2012 , approximately 65% of the company's debt portfolio was comprised of fixed-rate debt and 35% was floating-rate debt. a 1.0 percentage point change in the interest rate of the floating-rate debt would not have a material impact on the company's results of operations. 30risk factors 8 risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the company's common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the downturn in the u.s. and global economies, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company's business. although these difficult economic conditions have improved, there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate in the future. further, significant or prolonged declines in such economies could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the downturn in the u.s. and global economies, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company's business. the company derives a majority of its sales from the replacement segment of the market, followed by sales associated with new construction activities. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities lagged during the downturn. although the difficult economic conditions have improved in the u.s., european and other markets have not recovered as quickly and there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate in the foreseeable future. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial remodeling or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company may be unable to predict customer preferences or demand accurately, or to respond to technological developments. the company operates in a market sector where demand is strongly influenced by rapidly changing customer preferences as to product design and technical features. failure to quickly and effectively respond to changing customer demand or technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 8 table of contents index to financial statements the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry that could decrease demand for the company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. maintaining the company's competitive position may require substantial investments in the company's product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company's products or force the company to lower prices. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. changes in the global economy could affect the company's overall availability and cost of credit. despite recent improvement in overall economic conditions in the u.s., continued weakness elsewhere in the world or changes in market conditions could impact the company's ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness. the cost and availability of credit during uncertain economic times could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. further, these negative economic and business conditions may factor into the company's periodic credit ratings assessment by moody's investors service, inc. ("moody's"), standard &amp; poor's financial services, llc ("s&amp;p") and fitch, inc. a rating agency's evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include scale and diversification, brand strength, profitability, leverage, liquidity and interest coverage. any future downgrades in the company's credit ratings could increase the cost of its existing credit and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. each downgrade of the company's credit rating by moody's or s&amp;p would increase interest expense on the company's senior unsecured $900.0 million notes by 25 basis points. the company can provide no assurances that downgrades will not occur. if the company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in its existing credit facilities, it may be required to repay borrowings under the credit facilities prior to their maturity and may lose access to the credit facilities for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations and growth strategy. on july 8, 2011 , the company entered into a $900.0 million , 5 -year, senior, secured revolving credit facility (the "2011 senior credit facility"). on january 20, 2012 , the company entered into an amendment to the 2011 senior credit facility that provided for an incremental term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $150.0 million . on september 25, 2013 , the company entered into a $1,000.0 million , 5 -year, senior revolving credit facility (the "2013 senior credit facility") and terminated the 2011 senior credit facility, including the term loan, which was originally set to mature on july 8, 2016 . as of december 31, 2013 , the amount utilized under the 2013 senior credit facility including the term loan was $458.5 million resulting in a total of $541.5 million available under the 2013 senior credit facility. the amount utilized included $364.0 million of borrowings, $46.8 million of standby letters of credit guaranteeing the company's industrial revenue bonds and $47.7 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. in addition, on december 19, 2012, the company entered into a three-year on-balance sheet u.s. trade accounts receivable securitization agreement (the "securitization facility") that allows the company to borrow up to $300 million based on available accounts receivable and is secured by the company's u.s. trade accounts receivable. at december 31, 2013 , the amount utilized under the securitization facility was $300.0 million . during the term of the credit facilities, if the company's cash flow is worse than expected or the u.s. trade accounts receivables are lower than expected, the company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. if the company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or weakness in the company's businesses, the company's ability to finance its operations or repay existing debt obligations may be materially and adversely affected. additionally, the credit facilities include certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the company's financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, investments, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the company's business. in addition, the 2013 senior credit facility requires the company to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated net leverage ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0. a failure to comply with the obligations contained in our current or future credit facilities or indentures relating to our outstanding public debt could result in an event of default or an acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. we cannot be certain that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. 9 table of contents index to financial statements the 2013 senior credit facility is scheduled to mature on september 25, 2018 . however, the maturity date will accelerate, resulting in the acceleration of any unamortized deferred financing costs, to october 16, 2015 , if on that date any of the company's 6.125% notes due january 15, 2016 remains outstanding and the company has not delivered to the administrative agent a certificate demonstrating that, after giving pro forma effect to the repayment in cash in full on that date of all of the 6.125% notes that remain outstanding, the amount the company would be permitted to draw under the 2013 senior credit facility, together with the aggregate consolidated amount of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of the company, would exceed $200.0 million . while there can be no assurance, the company currently believes that if any of the 6.125% notes remains outstanding on october 16, 2015 , the amount the company would be permitted to draw under the 2013 senior credit facility, together with the aggregate consolidated amount of the company's unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, would exceed $200.0 million on october 16, 2015 . in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company's products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company's business may be materially adversely affected. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the principal raw materials used in the company's manufacturing operations include nylon, polypropylene, triexta and polyester resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the company's carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the company's ceramic tile business; and wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the company's wood and laminate flooring business. in addition, the company sources finished goods as well. for certain of such raw materials and sourced products, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company's relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the company to purchase more expensive alternatives. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in the company's business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the company's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company's financial periods. the results of the company's foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect as of the balance sheet date and for the statement of operations accounts using, principally, the company's average rates during the period. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company's currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company's results between financial periods. the company relies on information systems in managing the company's operations and any system failure or deficiencies of such systems may have an adverse effect on the company's business. the company's businesses rely on sophisticated inventory systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data. the company relies on these systems to, among other things: facilitate the purchase, management and distribution of inventory items; manage and monitor the daily operations of our distribution network; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage accurate billing to customers; and control logistics and quality control for our retail operations. 10 table of contents index to financial statements in our business, we rely on information management systems to monitor the daily operation of points of sale controlled and managed by us and to maintain accurate and up-to-date operating and financial data for the compilation of management information. we rely on our computer hardware, software and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of data to our sales and distribution systems. in addition, certain of our production processes are managed and conducted by computer. any damage by unforeseen events or system failure which causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increase in the service time, whether caused by human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism or otherwise, could disrupt our normal operations. there can be no assurance that we can effectively carry out our disaster recovery plan to handle the failure of our information systems, or that we will be able to restore our operational capacity within sufficient time to avoid material disruption to our business. the occurrence of any of these events could cause unanticipated disruptions in service, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction and harm to our reputation, which could result in loss of customers, increased operating expenses and financial losses. any such events could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. the company intends to grow its business through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. acquisitions may require the issuance of additional securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, which may dilute the ownership interests of existing security holders or impose higher interest costs on the company. the company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the company's organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. these challenges include: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity, or otherwise perform as expected, may result in goodwill or other asset impairments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. the controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. as part of the company's business strategy, the company intends to continue to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. although the company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities, to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the company's existing businesses, or to manage profitably acquired businesses or strategic investments. the company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. 11 table of contents index to financial statements the company's international activities are significant to its manufacturing capacity, revenues and profits, and the company is further expanding internationally. the company sells products, operates plants and invests in companies around the world. currently, the company's laminate and wood segment has significant operations in europe, russia, malaysia and australia and the company's ceramic segment has significant operations in europe, russia and mexico. in addition, the company has invested in joint ventures in brazil related to laminate flooring and china related to ceramic tile. the business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the u.s. the company's international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; political, legal and economic instability; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; inflation; differing labor laws and changes in those laws; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; tax inefficiencies and currency exchange controls that may adversely impact its ability to repatriate cash from non-u.s. subsidiaries; and compliance with laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials. the company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the company does business, and, therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company's operations or upon its financial condition and results of operations. the company has significant operations in emerging markets, including russia and, to a lesser extent, china, mexico and brazil, and, therefore, has exposure to doing business in potentially unstable areas of the world. operations in emerging markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks. market conditions and the political structures that support them are subject to rapid change in these economies, and the company may not be able to react quickly enough to protect its assets and business operations. in particular, russia and each of the other developing markets in which the company operates may be characterized by one or more of the following: heavy state control of natural resources and energy supplies; state ownership of transportation and supply chain assets; high protective tariffs and inefficient customs processes; complex and conflicting laws and regulations, which may be inconsistently or arbitrarily enforced; underdeveloped infrastructure; high incidences of corruption in state regulatory agencies; high crime rates; volatile inflation; widespread poverty and resulting political instability; immature legal and banking systems; and uncertainty with respect to title to real and personal property. changes in any one or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse affect on the company's operations, financial condition and prospects. negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. 12 table of contents index to financial statements the company is subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation. in calculating the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of profit before tax among these many jurisdictions. however, it also includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results of operations and tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of our tax exposures. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company and its customers and suppliers are subject to increasingly numerous and complex laws, regulations and licensing requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which the company conducts business. the company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with such laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the united states. further, the company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. for example, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to further limitations on the emission of greenhouse gases due to public policy concerns regarding climate change issues or other environmental or health and safety concerns. while the form of any additional regulations cannot be predicted, a cap-and-trade system similar to the system that applies to our businesses in the european union could be adopted in the united states. the company's manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. any such cap-and-trade system or other limitations imposed on the emission of greenhouse gases could require us to increase our capital expenditures, use our cash to acquire emission credits or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse affect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. the company's business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events. many of the company's business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. these facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. the company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business relating to its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in the ordinary course of business, the company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to the company. such matters could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition if the company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the company or settlements relating to these matters. although the company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. further, the company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the company, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect the company's reputation or the reputation and sales of its products. 13 table of contents index to financial statements the company's inability to protect its intellectual property rights or collect license revenues, particularly with respect to the company's patented laminate flooring technology and its registered trademarks, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the future success and competitive position of certain of the company's businesses, particularly the company's laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company's ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the company's principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s., countries in the european union and elsewhere, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company's employees, to protect that technology. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company's products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic and pergo family of patents, which protects its interlocking laminate flooring technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company's pending patent applications will be approved. in addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the company's filings, could render the company's intellectual property less valuable. furthermore, despite the company's efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company's business. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company's pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company's ability to protect the company's trademarks and impede the company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the company's business. the company generates license revenue from certain patents in the uniclic and pergo families that are not expected to expire until 2017 and 2021, respectively. the company continues to develop new sources of revenue to offset the expiration of its uniclic and pergo family of patents. the failure to develop alternative revenues could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company's trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company's confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company's growth and future revenue. third parties may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company's products. in the past, third parties have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company's products infringe their patent rights. the company cannot be certain that the company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the u.s. and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company's products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. furthermore, the company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the company's proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the company and divert the efforts of the company's technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the company's favor. in the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney's fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses authorizing the use of infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses for disputed 14 table of contents index to financial statements technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company's business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. the long-term performance of the company's business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, the company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design and innovation and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. the company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the company's competitive position and its operating results. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company's stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. the company's efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management's time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. declines in the company's business conditions may result in an impairment of the company's tangible and intangible assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a significant or prolonged decrease in the company's market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its tangible and intangible assets which results when the carrying value of the company's assets exceed their fair value. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words could, should, believes, anticipates, expects and estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation in raw material prices and other input costs; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the company's products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax, product and other claims; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk's sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. financial exposures to these risks are monitored as an integral part of the company's risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. from time to time, the company enters into derivative contracts to manage these risks. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. the company did not have any derivative contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 . as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 66% of the company's debt portfolio was comprised of fixed-rate debt and 34% was floating-rate debt. a 1.0 percentage point change in the interest rate of the floating-rate debt would not have a material impact on the company's results of operations. 30risk factors 8 risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the company's common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. significant or prolonged declines in the u.s. or global economies could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. downturns in the u.s. and global economies, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, negatively impact the floor covering industry and the company's business. the company derives a majority of its sales from the replacement segment of the market, followed by sales associated with new construction activities. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities lagged in the most recent downturn. although the difficult economic conditions have improved in the u.s., european and other markets have not recovered as quickly and there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate in the foreseeable future. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial remodeling or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. 8 table of contents index to financial statements the company may be unable to predict customer preferences or demand accurately, or to respond to technological developments. the company operates in a market sector where demand is strongly influenced by rapidly changing customer preferences as to product design and technical features. failure to quickly and effectively respond to changing customer demand or technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry that could decrease demand for the company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. maintaining the company's competitive position may require substantial investments in the company's product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company's products or force the company to lower prices. moreover, a strong u.s. dollar combined with lower fuel costs may contribute to more attractive pricing for imports that compete with the company's products, which may put pressure on the company's pricing. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. changes in the global economy could affect the company's overall availability and cost of credit. despite recent improvement in overall economic conditions in the u.s., continued weakness elsewhere in the world or changes in market conditions could impact the company's ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness. the cost and availability of credit during uncertain economic times could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. further, negative economic conditions may factor into the company's periodic credit ratings assessment by moody's investors service, inc. ("moody's"), standard &amp; poor's financial services, llc ("s&amp;p") and fitch, inc. any future changes in the credit rating agencies' methodology in assessing our credit strength and any downgrades in the company's credit ratings could increase the cost of its existing credit and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. the company can provide no assurances that downgrades will not occur. if the company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in its existing credit facilities, it may be required to repay borrowings under the credit facilities prior to their maturity and may lose access to the credit facilities for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations and growth strategy. on september 25, 2013 , the company entered into a $1,000.0 million , 5 -year, senior revolving credit facility (the "2013 senior credit facility"). as of december 31, 2014 , the amount utilized under the 2013 senior credit facility, including the commercial paper issuance, was $534.6 million resulting in a total of $465.4 million available. the amount utilized included $301.6 million of commercial paper issued, $195.7 million of direct borrowings, and $37.4 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. in addition, on december 19, 2012, the company entered into a three-year on-balance sheet u.s. trade accounts receivable securitization agreement (the "securitization facility") that after an amendment on september 11, 2014 allows the company to borrow up to $500 million based on available accounts receivable and is secured by the company's u.s. trade accounts receivable. at december 31, 2014 , the amount utilized under the securitization facility was $500.0 million . during the term of the credit facilities, if the company's cash flow is worse than expected or the u.s. trade accounts receivables are lower than expected, the company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. if the company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or weakness in the company's businesses, the company's ability to finance its operations or repay existing debt obligations may be materially and adversely affected. additionally, the credit facilities include certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the company's financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, investments, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the company's business. in addition, the 2013 senior credit facility requires the company to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated 9 table of contents index to financial statements net leverage ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0. a failure to comply with the obligations contained in our current or future credit facilities or indentures relating to our outstanding public debt could result in an event of default or an acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. we cannot be certain that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. the 2013 senior credit facility is scheduled to mature on september 25, 2018 . however, the maturity date will accelerate, resulting in the acceleration of any unamortized deferred financing costs, to october 16, 2015 , if on that date any of the company's 6.125% notes due january 15, 2016 remains outstanding and the company has not delivered to the administrative agent a certificate demonstrating that, after giving pro forma effect to the repayment in cash in full on that date of all of the 6.125% notes that remain outstanding, the amount the company would be permitted to draw under the 2013 senior credit facility, together with the aggregate consolidated amount of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of the company, would exceed $200.0 million . while there can be no assurance, the company currently believes that if any of the 6.125% notes remains outstanding on october 16, 2015 , the amount the company would be permitted to draw under the 2013 senior credit facility, together with the aggregate consolidated amount of the company's unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, would exceed $200.0 million on october 16, 2015 . in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company's products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company's business may be materially adversely affected. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the principal raw materials used in the company's manufacturing operations include triexta, nylon, polypropylene, and polyester resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the company's carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the company's ceramic tile business; and wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the company's wood and laminate flooring business. in addition, the company sources finished goods as well. for certain of such raw materials and sourced products, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers, and certain raw materials are sourced from unstable regions. an adverse change in the company's relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the company to purchase more expensive alternatives. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in the company's business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the company's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company's financial periods. the results of the company's foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect as of the balance sheet date and for the statement of operations accounts using, principally, the company's average rates during the period. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company's currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company's results between financial periods. the company relies on information systems in managing the company's operations and any system failure or deficiencies of such systems may have an adverse effect on the company's business. the company's businesses rely on sophisticated inventory systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data. the company relies on these systems to, among other things: 10 table of contents index to financial statements facilitate the purchase, management and distribution of inventory items; manage and monitor the daily operations of our distribution network; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage accurate billing to customers; and control logistics and quality control for our retail operations. in addition, we rely on information management systems to monitor the daily operation of points of sale controlled and managed by us and to maintain accurate and up-to-date operating and financial data for the compilation of management information. we rely on our computer hardware, software and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of data to our sales and distribution systems, and certain of our production processes are managed and conducted by computer. any damage by unforeseen events or system failure which causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increase in the service time, whether caused by human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, various forms of cybercrimes including and not limited to hacking, intrusions and malware or otherwise, could disrupt our normal operations. there can be no assurance that we can effectively carry out our disaster recovery plan to handle the failure of our information systems, or that we will be able to restore our operational capacity within sufficient time to avoid material disruption to our business. the occurrence of any of these events could cause unanticipated disruptions in service, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction and harm to our reputation, which could result in loss of customers, increased operating expenses and financial losses. any such events could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. the company intends to grow its business through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. acquisitions may require the issuance of additional securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, which may dilute the ownership interests of existing security holders or impose higher interest costs on the company. the company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the company's organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. these challenges include: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity, or otherwise perform as expected, may result in goodwill or other asset impairments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. the controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. 11 table of contents index to financial statements a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. as part of the company's business strategy, the company intends to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. although the company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities, to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the company's existing businesses, or to manage profitably acquired businesses or strategic investments. the company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. the company's international activities are significant to its manufacturing capacity, revenues and profits, and the company is further expanding internationally. the company sells products, operates plants and invests in companies around the world. currently, the company's laminate and wood segment has significant operations in europe, russia, malaysia and australia and the company's ceramic segment has significant operations in europe, russia and mexico. in addition, the company has invested in a joint venture in brazil related to laminate flooring and has an investment in a chinese tile manufacturer. the business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the u.s. the company's international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; differing inflationary or deflationary market pressures; foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; differing labor laws and changes in those laws; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; potential difficulties repatriating cash from non-u.s. subsidiaries; and compliance with laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials. the company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing risks effectively in each location where the company does business, and, therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company has significant operations in emerging markets, including russia, mexico and malaysia, and, therefore, has exposure to doing business in potentially unstable areas of the world. operations in emerging markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks. market conditions and the political structures that support them are subject to rapid change in these economies, and the company may not be able to react quickly enough to protect its assets and business operations. in particular, developing markets in which the company operates may be characterized by one or more of the following: heavy state control of natural resources and energy supplies; state ownership of transportation and supply chain assets; high protective tariffs and inefficient customs processes; complex and conflicting laws and regulations, which may be inconsistently or arbitrarily enforced; 12 table of contents index to financial statements underdeveloped infrastructure; high incidences of corruption in state regulatory agencies; high crime rates; volatile inflation; widespread poverty and resulting political instability; immature legal and banking systems; and uncertainty with respect to title to real and personal property. changes in any one or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse affect on the company's business. negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the company's business. the company is subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation. in calculating the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of profit before tax among these many jurisdictions. however, it also includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results of operations and tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of our tax exposures. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company is subject to increasingly numerous and complex laws, regulations and licensing requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which the company conducts business. the company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with such laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the united states. in particular, the company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. for example, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to further limitations on the emission of greenhouse gases due to public policy concerns regarding climate change issues or other environmental or health and safety concerns. while the form of any additional regulations cannot be predicted, a cap-and-trade system similar to the system that applies to our businesses in the european union could be adopted in the united states. the company's manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. any such cap-and-trade system or other limitations imposed on the emission of greenhouse gases could require us to increase our capital expenditures, use our cash to acquire emission credits or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. the company's business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events. many of the company's business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. these facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. the company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business. 13 table of contents index to financial statements the company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings in the relating to its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in the ordinary course of business, the company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters. a very large claim or several similar claims asserted by a a large class of plaintiffs could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, if the company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the company or settlements relating to these matters. although the company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. further, the company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the company, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect the company's reputation or the reputation and sales of its products. the company's inability to protect its intellectual property rights or collect license revenues, with respect to the company's patented laminate flooring technology, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the profit margins of certain of the company's businesses, particularly the company's laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company's ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the company's principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s., countries in the european union and elsewhere, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company's employees, to protect that technology. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company's products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic and pergo family of patents, which protects its interlocking laminate flooring technology. the company generates license revenue from these patents, which are expected to expire in 2017 and 2021, respectively. the company continues to develop new sources of revenue to offset the expiration of its revenue-producing patents. the failure to develop alternative revenues could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in addition, the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company's pending patent applications will be approved. the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise furthermore, despite the company's efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company's business. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company's pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company's ability to protect the company's trademarks and impede the company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the company's business. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company's trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company's confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company's growth and future revenue. 14 table of contents index to financial statements third parties may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company's products. in the past, third parties have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company's products infringe their patent rights. the company cannot be certain that the company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the u.s. and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company's products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. as a result, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney's fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses authorizing the use of infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses for disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company's business would be materially and adversely affected. the long-term performance of the company's business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, the company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design and innovation and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. the company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the company's competitive position and its operating results. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company's stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. the company's efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management's time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. declines in the company's business conditions may result in an impairment of the company's tangible and intangible assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a significant or prolonged decrease in the company's market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its tangible and intangible assets which results when the carrying value of the company's assets exceed their fair value. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words could, should, believes, anticipates, expects and estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation and deflation in raw material prices and other input costs; inflation and deflation in consumer markets; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the company's products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax, product and other claims; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk's sec reports and public announcements. 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. financial exposures to these risks are monitored as an integral part of the company's risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. the company did not have any derivative contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 . interest rate risk as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 55% of the company's debt portfolio was comprised of fixed-rate debt and 45% was floating-rate debt. the company believes that probable near-term changes in interest rates would not materially affect financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the annual impact on interest expense of a one-percentage point interest rate change on the outstanding balance of our variable rate debt as of december 31, 2014 would be approximately $10,000 or $.08 to diluted eps. foreign exchange risk as a result of being a global enterprise, there is exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of the company. principal foreign currency exposures relate primarily to the euro and to a lesser extent the russian ruble, the mexican peso, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the british pound and the malaysian ringgit. the company's objective is to balance, where possible, non-functional currency denominated assets to non-functional currency denominated liabilities to have a natural hedge and minimize foreign exchange impacts. the company enters into cross border transactions through importing and exporting goods to and from different countries and locations. these transactions 31 generate foreign exchange risk as they create assets, liabilities and cash flows in currencies other than their functional currency. this also applies to services provided and other cross border agreements among subsidiaries. the company takes steps to minimize risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through normal operating and financing activities. the company does not enter into any speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. based on 2014 financial results for the year ended december 31, 2014, a hypothetical overall 10 percent change in the u.s. dollar against the euro and russian ruble would have resulted in a translational adjustment of approximately $30 million. 32risk factors 8 risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the company's common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence, income and spending, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. significant or prolonged declines in the u.s. or global economies could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. downturns in the u.s. and global economies, negatively impact the floor covering industry and the company's business. during times of economic uncertainty or decline, end consumers tend to spend less on remodeling their homes, which is how the company derives a majority of its sales. likewise new home construction - and the corresponding need for new flooring materials - tends to slow down during recessionary periods. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities lagged in the most recent downturn. although the difficult economic conditions have improved in the u.s., european and other markets have not recovered as quickly and there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate in the foreseeable future. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial remodeling or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company may be unable to predict customer preferences or demand accurately, or to respond to technological developments. the company operates in a market sector where demand is strongly influenced by rapidly changing customer preferences as to product design and technical features. failure to quickly and effectively respond to changing customer demand or technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. 8 table of contents index to financial statements the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry that could decrease demand for the company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. maintaining the company's competitive position may require substantial investments in the company's product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company's products or force the company to lower prices. moreover, a strong u.s. dollar combined with lower fuel costs may contribute to more attractive pricing for imports that compete with the company's products, which may put pressure on the company's pricing. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. changes in the global economy could affect the company's overall availability and cost of credit. despite recent improvement in overall economic conditions in the u.s., continued weakness elsewhere in the world or changes in market conditions could impact the company's ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness. the cost and availability of credit during uncertain economic times could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. further, negative economic conditions may factor into the company's periodic credit ratings assessment by moody's investors service, inc. ("moody's"), standard &amp; poor's financial services, llc ("s&amp;p") and fitch, inc. any future changes in the credit rating agencies' methodology in assessing our credit strength and any downgrades in the company's credit ratings could increase the cost of its existing credit and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. the company can provide no assurances that downgrades will not occur. if the company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in its existing credit facilities, it may be required to repay borrowings under the credit facilities prior to their maturity and may lose access to the credit facilities for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations and growth strategy. on march 26, 2015, the company entered into a $1,800 million , senior revolving credit facility (the "2015 senior credit facility"). as of december 31, 2015 , the amount utilized under the 2015 senior credit facility, including the commercial paper issuance, was $892.3 million resulting in a total of $907.7 million available. the amount utilized included $756.9 million of commercial paper issued, $134.1 million of direct borrowings, and $1.4 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. in addition, on december 19, 2012, the company entered into an on-balance sheet u.s. trade accounts receivable securitization agreement (the "securitization facility") that after an amendment on september 11, 2014 allows the company to borrow up to $500 million based on available accounts receivable and is secured by the company's u.s. trade accounts receivable. at december 31, 2015 , the amount utilized under the securitization facility was $500.0 million . during the term of the credit facilities, if the company's cash flow is worse than expected or the u.s. trade accounts receivables are lower than expected, the company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. if the company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or weakness in the company's businesses, the company's ability to finance its operations or repay existing debt obligations may be materially and adversely affected. additionally, the credit facilities include certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the company's financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the company's business. in addition, the 2015 senior credit facility requires the company to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated net leverage ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0. a failure to comply with the obligations contained in our current or future credit facilities or indentures relating to our outstanding public debt could result in an event of default or an acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. we cannot be certain that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company's financial periods. 9 table of contents index to financial statements the results of the company's foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company's currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company's results between financial periods. the company has significant operations in emerging markets, including bulgaria, malaysia, mexico and russia, therefore, has exposure to doing business in potentially unstable areas of the world. operations in emerging markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks. market conditions and the political structures that support them are subject to rapid change in these economies, and the company may not be able to react quickly enough to protect its assets and business operations. in particular, developing markets in which the company operates may be characterized by one or more of the following: heavy state control of natural resources and energy supplies; state ownership of transportation and supply chain assets; high protective tariffs and inefficient customs processes; complex and conflicting laws and regulations, which may be inconsistently or arbitrarily enforced; underdeveloped infrastructure; high incidences of corruption in state regulatory agencies; high crime rates; volatile inflation; widespread poverty and resulting political instability; compliance with laws governing international relations, including u.s. laws that relate to sanctions and corruptions; immature legal and banking systems; and uncertainty with respect to title to real and personal property. changes in any one or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse affect on the company's business. in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the prices of raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. while the company is currently experiencing a low-cost environment with respect to energy and fuel related costs, the company expects these costs to rise in the future. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, labor, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company's products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company's business may be materially adversely affected. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the principal raw materials used in the company's manufacturing operations include triexta, nylon, polypropylene, and polyester resins and fibers, which are used in the company's carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used in the company's ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used in the company's wood and laminate flooring business; and glass fiber, plasticizers, and pvc resins, which are used in the company's vinyl and luxury vinyl tile business. in addition to raw materials, the company sources finished goods. for certain raw materials and sourced products, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company's relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the company to purchase more expensive alternatives. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or 10 table of contents index to financial statements sourced products used in the company's business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the company's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company relies on information systems in managing the company's operations and any system failure or deficiencies of such systems may have an adverse effect on the company's business. the company's businesses rely on sophisticated software applications to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data. the company relies on these systems to, among other things: facilitate the purchase, management, distribution, and payment for inventory items; manage and monitor the daily operations of our distribution network; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage accurate billing to and collections from customers; control logistics and quality control for our retail operations; manage financial reporting; and monitor point of sale activity. we also rely on our computer hardware, software and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of data to our sales and distribution systems, and certain of our production processes are managed and conducted by computer. any event causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increase in the service time, whether caused by human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, system conversion, intentional acts of vandalism, various forms of cybercrimes including and not limited to hacking, intrusions, malware or otherwise, could disrupt our normal operations. there can be no assurance that we can effectively carry out our disaster recovery plan to handle the failure of our information systems, or that we will be able to restore our operational capacity within sufficient time to avoid material disruption to our business. the occurrence of any of these events could cause unanticipated disruptions in service, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction, harm to our reputation and loss or misappropriation of sensitive information, which could result in loss of customers, increased operating expenses and financial losses. any such events could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. the company's inability to protect its intellectual property rights or collect license revenues, with respect to the company's patented laminate flooring technology, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the profit margins of certain of the company's businesses, particularly the company's laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company's ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the company's principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s., countries in the european union and elsewhere, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company's employees, to protect that technology. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company's products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic and pergo family of patents, which protects its interlocking laminate flooring technology. the company generates license revenue from these patents, the majority of which will expire in 2017. the company continues to develop new sources of revenue that may partially offset the expiration of its revenue-producing patents. the failure to develop alternative revenues could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in addition, the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company's pending patent applications will be approved. the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise furthermore, despite the company's efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by 11 table of contents index to financial statements others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company's business. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company's pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company's ability to protect the company's trademarks and impede the company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the company's business. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company's trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company's confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company's growth and future revenue. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. the company intends to grow its business through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. acquisitions may require the issuance of additional securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, which may dilute the ownership interests of existing security holders or impose higher interest costs on the company. additional challenges related to the company's acquisition strategy include: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and retaining key employees. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability, or otherwise perform as expected, may result in goodwill or other asset impairments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner, or the joint venture company, may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. as part of the company's business strategy, the company intends to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. although the company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions. 12 table of contents index to financial statements the company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. the company's international activities are significant to its manufacturing capacity, revenues and profits, and the company is further expanding internationally. the company sells products, operates plants and invests in companies around the world. currently, the company's flooring row segment has significant operations in europe, russia, malaysia, australia and new zealand, and the company's global ceramic segment has significant operations in europe, russia and mexico. in addition, the company has invested in joint ventures in brazil and india related to laminate flooring. the business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the u.s. the company's international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; differing inflationary or deflationary market pressures; foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; differing labor laws and changes in those laws; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; potential difficulties repatriating cash from non-u.s. subsidiaries; and compliance with laws governing international relations, including those u.s. laws that relate to sanctions and corruption. the company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing risks effectively in each location where the company does business, and, therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company's business. negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the company's business. the company is subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation. in calculating the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of profit before tax among these many jurisdictions. however, it also includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results of operations and tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of our tax exposures. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company is subject to increasingly numerous and complex laws, regulations and licensing requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which the company conducts business. the company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with such laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the united states. 13 table of contents index to financial statements in particular, the company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. for example, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to further limitations on the emission of greenhouse gases due to public policy concerns regarding climate change issues or other environmental or health and safety concerns. while the form of any additional regulations cannot be predicted, a cap-and-trade system similar to the system that applies to our businesses in the european union could be adopted in the united states. the company's manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. any such cap-and-trade system or other limitations imposed on the emission of greenhouse gases could require us to increase our capital expenditures, use our cash to acquire emission credits or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the company's business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events. many of the company's business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. these facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. the company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business. the company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings relating to its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in the ordinary course of business, the company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters. a very large claim or several similar claims asserted by a a large class of plaintiffs could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, if the company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the company or settlements relating to these matters. although the company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. further, the company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the company, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect the company's reputation or the reputation and sales of its products. third parties may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company's products. in the past, third parties have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company's products infringe their patent rights. the company cannot be certain that the company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the u.s. and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company's products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. as a result, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney's fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses authorizing the use of infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses for disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company's business would be materially and adversely affected. the long-term performance of the company's business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. 14 table of contents index to financial statements to be successful, the company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design, and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. the company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the company's competitive position and its operating results. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company's stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. the company's efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management's time and attention from profit generating activities to compliance activities. declines in the company's business conditions may result in an impairment of the company's assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a significant or prolonged decrease in the company's market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its assets which results when the carrying value of the company's assets exceed their fair value. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words could, should, believes, anticipates, expects and estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation and deflation in raw material prices and other input costs; inflation and deflation in consumer markets; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the company's products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax, product and other claims; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk's sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. financial exposures to these risks are monitored as an integral part of the company's risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. excluding the hedge of net investment discussed in note 1(o) "hedges of net investments in non-u.s. operations", of our accompanying consolidated financial statements and supplementary data in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, the company did not have any derivative contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 . interest rate risk as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 57% of the company's debt portfolio was comprised of fixed-rate debt and 43% was floating-rate debt. the company believes that probable near-term changes in interest rates would not materially affect its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the annual impact on interest expense of a one-percentage point interest rate change on the outstanding balance of our variable rate debt as of december 31, 2015 would be approximately $14 million or $0.12 to diluted eps. foreign exchange risk as a result of being a global enterprise, there is exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of the company. principal foreign currency exposures relate primarily to the euro and to a lesser extent the russian ruble, the mexican peso, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the british pound and the malaysian ringgit. the company's objective is to balance, where possible, non-functional currency denominated assets to non-functional currency denominated liabilities to have a natural hedge and minimize foreign exchange impacts. the company enters into cross border transactions through importing and exporting goods to and from different countries and locations. these transactions generate foreign exchange risk as they create assets, liabilities and cash flows in currencies other than their functional currency. this also applies to services provided and other cross border agreements among subsidiaries. 34 the company takes steps to minimize risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through normal operating and financing activities. the company does not enter into any speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. based on financial results for the year ended december 31, 2015, a hypothetical overall 10 percent change in the u.s. dollar against the euro and russian ruble would have resulted in a translational adjustment of approximately $31 million. 35risk factors 9 risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the company's common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence, income and spending, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. significant or prolonged declines in the u.s. or global economies could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. downturns in the u.s. and global economies, negatively impact the floor covering industry and the company's business. during times of economic uncertainty or decline, end consumers tend to spend less on remodeling their homes, which is how the company derives a majority of its sales. likewise new home construction - and the corresponding need for new flooring materials - tends to slow down during recessionary periods. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities lagged in the most recent downturn. although the difficult economic conditions have improved in the u.s., european and other markets have not recovered as quickly and there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate in the foreseeable future. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial remodeling or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company may be unable to predict customer preferences or demand accurately, or to respond to technological developments. the company operates in a market sector where demand is strongly influenced by rapidly changing customer preferences as to product design and technical features. failure to quickly and effectively respond to changing customer demand or technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry that could decrease demand for the company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. maintaining the company's competitive position may require substantial investments in the company's product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company's products or force the company to lower prices. moreover, a strong u.s. dollar combined with lower fuel costs may contribute to more attractive pricing for imports that compete with the company's products, which may put pressure on the company's pricing. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. changes in the global economy could affect the company's overall availability and cost of credit. despite recent improvement in overall economic conditions in the u.s., continued weakness elsewhere in the world or changes in market conditions could impact the company's ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness. the cost and availability of credit during uncertain economic times could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. further, negative economic conditions may factor into the company's periodic credit ratings assessment by moody's investors service, inc. ("moody's"), standard &amp; poor's financial services, llc ("s&amp;p") and fitch, inc. any future changes in the credit rating agencies' methodology in assessing our credit strength and any downgrades in the company's credit ratings could increase the cost of its existing credit and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. the company can provide no assurances that downgrades will not occur. 10 table of contents index to financial statements if the company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in its existing credit facilities, it may be required to repay borrowings under the credit facilities prior to their maturity and may lose access to the credit facilities for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations and growth strategy. on march 26, 2015, the company entered into a $1,800 million , senior revolving credit facility (the "2015 senior credit facility"). as of december 31, 2016 , the amount utilized under the 2015 senior credit facility, including the commercial paper issuance, was $881.9 million resulting in a total of $918.1 million available. the amount utilized included $820.3 million of commercial paper issued, $60.7 million of direct borrowings, and $0.9 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. in addition, on december 19, 2012, the company entered into an on-balance sheet u.s. trade accounts receivable securitization agreement (the "securitization facility") that after an amendment on september 11, 2014 allows the company to borrow up to $500 million based on available accounts receivable and is secured by the company's u.s. trade accounts receivable. at december 31, 2016 , the amount utilized under the securitization facility was $500.0 million . during the term of the credit facilities, if the company's cash flow is worse than expected or the u.s. trade accounts receivables are lower than expected, the company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. if the company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or weakness in the company's businesses, the company's ability to finance its operations or repay existing debt obligations may be materially and adversely affected. additionally, the credit facilities include certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the company's financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the company's business. in addition, the 2015 senior credit facility requires the company to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated net leverage ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0. a failure to comply with the obligations contained in our current or future credit facilities or indentures relating to our outstanding public debt could result in an event of default or an acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. we cannot be certain that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company's financial periods. the results of the company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars from the local currency for consolidated reporting. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company's currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company's results between financial periods. the company has significant operations in emerging markets, including bulgaria, malaysia, mexico and russia, therefore, has exposure to doing business in potentially unstable areas of the world. operations in emerging markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks. market conditions and the political structures that support them are subject to rapid change in these economies, and the company may not be able to react quickly enough to protect its assets and business operations. in particular, developing markets in which the company operates may be characterized by one or more of the following: complex and conflicting laws and regulations, which may be inconsistently or arbitrarily enforced; high incidences of corruption in state regulatory agencies; volatile inflation; widespread poverty and resulting political instability; compliance with laws governing international relations, including u.s. laws that relate to sanctions and corruptions; immature legal and banking systems; uncertainty with respect to title to real and personal property; 11 table of contents index to financial statements underdeveloped infrastructure; heavy state control of natural resources and energy supplies; state ownership of transportation and supply chain assets; high protective tariffs and inefficient customs processes; and high crime rates. changes in any one or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse affect on the company's business. in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the prices of raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. while the company is currently experiencing a low-cost environment with respect to energy and fuel related costs, the company expects these costs to rise in the future. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, labor, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company's products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company's business may be materially adversely affected. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the principal raw materials used in the company's manufacturing operations include triexta, nylon, polypropylene, and polyester resins and fibers, which are used in the company's carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used in the company's ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used in the company's wood and laminate flooring business; and glass fiber, plasticizers, and pvc resins, which are used in the company's vinyl and luxury vinyl tile business. in addition to raw materials, the company sources finished goods. for certain raw materials and sourced products, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company's relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the company to purchase more expensive alternatives. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in the company's business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the company's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company relies on information systems in managing the company's operations and any system failure or deficiencies of such systems may have an adverse effect on the company's business. the company's businesses rely on sophisticated software applications to obtain, process, analyze and manage data. the company relies on these systems to, among other things: facilitate the purchase, management, distribution, and payment for inventory items; manage and monitor the daily operations of our distribution network; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage accurate billing to and collections from customers; control logistics and quality control for our retail operations; manage financial reporting; and monitor point of sale activity. we also rely on our computer hardware, software and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of data to our sales and distribution systems, and certain of our production processes are managed and conducted by computer. 12 table of contents index to financial statements any event that causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increase in the service time, whether caused by human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, system conversion, cyber attacks including and not limited to hacking, intrusions, malware or otherwise, could disrupt our normal operations. there can be no assurance that we can effectively carry out our disaster recovery plan to handle the failure of our information systems, or that we will be able to restore our operational capacity within sufficient time to avoid material disruption to our business. the occurrence of any of these events could cause unanticipated disruptions in service, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction, harm to our reputation and loss or misappropriation of sensitive information, which could result in loss of customers, increased operating expenses and financial losses. any such events could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. the company's inability to maintain its patent licensing revenues in its laminate flooring business could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the profit margins of certain of the company's businesses, particularly the company's laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company's ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the company's principal product families. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company's products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic and pergo family of patents, which protect its interlocking laminate flooring technology. the company generated approximately $148 million of earnings from licensing these patents in 2016, the majority of which will expire in 2017. the company continues to develop new sources of revenue that may partially offset the expiration of its revenue-producing patents. the failure to develop alternative revenues could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. the company intends to grow its business through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. acquisitions may require the issuance of additional securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, which may dilute the ownership interests of existing security holders or impose higher interest costs on the company. additional challenges related to the company's acquisition strategy include: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and retaining key employees. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability, or otherwise perform as expected, may result in goodwill or other asset impairments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the company's business. finally, acquisition targets may be subject to material liabilities that are not properly identified in due diligence and that are not covered by seller indemnification obligation or third party insurance. the unknown liabilities of the company's acquisition targets may have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner, or the joint venture company, may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. 13 table of contents index to financial statements a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. as part of the company's business strategy, the company intends to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. although the company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, which may slow the company's growth and have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. the company's international activities are significant to its manufacturing capacity, revenues and profits, and the company is further expanding internationally. the company sells products, operates plants and invests in companies around the world. currently, the company's flooring row segment has significant operations in europe, russia, malaysia, australia and new zealand, and the company's global ceramic segment has significant operations in europe, russia and mexico. in addition, the company has invested in joint ventures in brazil and india related to laminate flooring. the business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the u.s. the company's international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; differing inflationary or deflationary market pressures; foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; differing labor laws and changes in those laws; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; potential difficulties repatriating cash from non-u.s. subsidiaries; and compliance with laws governing international relations, including those u.s. laws that relate to sanctions and corruption. the company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing risks effectively in each location where the company does business, and, therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company's business. negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the company's business. the company is subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation. in calculating the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of profit before tax among these many jurisdictions. however, it also includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results of operations and tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of our tax exposures. 14 table of contents index to financial statements the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company is subject to increasingly numerous and complex laws, regulations and licensing requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which the company conducts business. the company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with such laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the united states. in particular, the company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. for example, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to further limitations on the emission of greenhouse gases due to public policy concerns regarding climate change issues or other environmental or health and safety concerns. while the form of any additional regulations cannot be predicted, a cap-and-trade system similar to the system that applies to our businesses in the european union could be adopted in the united states. the company's manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. any such cap-and-trade system or other limitations imposed on the emission of greenhouse gases could require us to increase our capital expenditures, use our cash to acquire emission credits or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the company's business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events. many of the company's business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. these facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. the company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business. the company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings relating to its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in the ordinary course of business, the company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters. a very large claim or several similar claims asserted by a large class of plaintiffs could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, if the company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the company or settlements relating to these matters. although the company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. further, the company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the company, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect the company's reputation or the reputation and sales of its products. the company's inability to protect its intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on the company's business the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s., countries in the european union and elsewhere, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company's employees, to protect that technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company's pending patent applications will be approved. the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. 15 table of contents index to financial statements furthermore, despite the company's efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company's business. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company's pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company's ability to protect the company's trademarks and impede the company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the company's business. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company's trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company's confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company's growth and future revenue. third parties may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company's products. in the past, third parties have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company's products infringe their patent rights. the company cannot be certain that the company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney's fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses authorizing the use of infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses for disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company's business would be materially and adversely affected. the long-term performance of the company's business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, the company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design, and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. the company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the company's competitive position and its operating results. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company's stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. the company's efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management's time and attention from profit generating activities to compliance activities. declines in the company's business conditions may result in an impairment of the company's assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a significant or prolonged decrease in the company's market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its assets which results when the carrying value of the company's assets exceed their fair value. 16 table of contents index to financial statements forward-looking information certain of the statements in this form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words could, should, believes, anticipates, expects and estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation and deflation in raw material prices and other input costs; inflation and deflation in consumer markets; currency fluctuations; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the company's products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax, product and other claims; litigation; regulatory and political changes in the jurisdictions in which we do business; and other risks identified in mohawk's sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. financial exposures to these risks are monitored as an integral part of the company's risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. excluding the hedge of net investment discussed in note 1(o) "hedges of net investments in non-u.s. operations", of our accompanying consolidated financial statements and supplementary data in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, the company did not have any derivative contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 . interest rate risk as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 45% of the company's debt portfolio was comprised of fixed-rate debt and 55% was floating-rate debt. the company believes that probable near-term changes in interest rates would not materially affect its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the annual impact on interest expense of a one-percentage point interest rate change on the outstanding balance of our variable rate debt as of december 31, 2016 would be approximately $14 million or $0.12 to diluted eps. foreign exchange risk as a result of being a global enterprise, there is exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of the company. principal foreign currency exposures relate primarily to the euro and to a lesser extent the russian ruble, the mexican peso, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the british pound and the malaysian ringgit. the company's objective is to balance, where possible, non-functional currency denominated assets to non-functional currency denominated liabilities to have a natural hedge and minimize foreign exchange impacts. the company enters into cross border transactions through importing and exporting goods to and from different countries and locations. these transactions generate foreign exchange risk as they create assets, liabilities and cash flows in currencies other than their functional currency. this also applies to services provided and other cross border agreements among subsidiaries. the company takes steps to minimize risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through normal operating and financing activities. the company does not enter into any speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. based on financial results for the year ended december 31, 2016, a hypothetical overall 10 percent change in the u.s. dollar against the euro would have resulted in a translational adjustment of approximately $42 million. 36risk factors 9 risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the company's common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the impact of recent tax reforms on the company's results of operations is uncertain. in december of 2017, the u.s. and belgium enacted tax reforms for corporate taxpayers. the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act ("tcja") is the most significant and complex change to the u.s. tax law in more than 30 years. the tcja contains significant changes, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory taxation of offshore accumulated earnings regardless of whether they are repatriated, limitation of the deduction for interest expense, additional taxes on the future income of the company's foreign subsidiaries and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. for the year ended december 31, 2017, the company recorded a net provisional tax expense of $45.2 million representing the best current estimate of the impact of the tcja and related transactions. with respect to the belgian legislation, the most significant provisions were the reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 33.99% to 29.58% for january 1, 2018 and january 1, 2019, respectively, with a further reduction to 25% effective january 1, 2020, an annual limitation on the utilization of net operating losses, and creation of a consolidated corporate income tax regime. as a result of the belgian reform, the company recorded a net tax benefit of $44.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. the company will continue to evaluate the interpretations and future guidance related to the tax reforms to determine the impact on the company's tax determinations and results for future periods. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence, income and spending, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. significant or prolonged declines in the u.s. or global economies could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. downturns in the u.s. and global economies, negatively impact the floor covering industry and the company's business. during times of economic uncertainty or decline, end consumers tend to spend less on remodeling their homes, which is how the company derives a majority of its sales. likewise new home construction - and the corresponding need for new flooring materials - tends to slow down during recessionary periods. although the difficult economic conditions have improved in the u.s., european and other markets, there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate in the foreseeable future. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial remodeling or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company may be unable to predict customer preferences or demand accurately, or to respond to technological developments. the company operates in a market sector where demand is strongly influenced by rapidly changing customer preferences as to product design and technical features. failure to quickly and effectively respond to changing customer demand or technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry that could decrease demand for the company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. maintaining the company's competitive position may require substantial investments in the company's product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company's products or force the company to lower prices. moreover, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and input costs may contribute to more attractive pricing for imports that compete with the company's products, which may put pressure on the company's pricing. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. 10 table of contents index to financial statements changes in the global economy could affect the company's overall availability and cost of credit. a downturn in the u.s. or global economies could impact the company's ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness. the cost and availability of credit during uncertain economic times could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. further, negative economic conditions may factor into the company's periodic credit ratings assessment by moody's investors service, inc. ("moody's"), standard &amp; poor's financial services, llc ("s&amp;p") and fitch, inc. any future changes in the credit rating agencies' methodology in assessing our credit strength and any downgrades in the company's credit ratings could increase the cost of its existing credit and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. the company can provide no assurances that downgrades will not occur. if the company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in its existing credit facilities, it may be required to repay borrowings under the credit facilities prior to their maturity and may lose access to the credit facilities for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations and growth strategy. on march 26, 2015, the company entered into a $1,800 million , senior revolving credit facility (the "2015 senior credit facility"). as of december 31, 2017 , the amount utilized under the 2015 senior credit facility, including the commercial paper issuance, was $1,259.0 million resulting in a total of $541.0 million available. the amount utilized included $1,140.6 million of commercial paper issued, $62.1 million of direct borrowings, and $56.3 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. if the company's cash flow is worse than expected, the company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. if the company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or weakness in the company's businesses, the company's ability to finance its operations or repay existing debt obligations may be materially and adversely affected. additionally, the company's credit facilities include certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the company's financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the company's business. in addition, the 2015 senior credit facility requires the company to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated net leverage ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0. a failure to comply with the obligations contained in our current or future credit facilities or indentures relating to our outstanding public debt could result in an event of default or an acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. we cannot be certain that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company's financial periods. the results of the company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars from the local currency for consolidated reporting. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company's currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company's results between financial periods. the company has significant operations in emerging markets, including eastern europe, malaysia, mexico and russia, and therefore has exposure to doing business in potentially unstable areas of the world. operations in emerging markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks. market conditions and the political structures that support them are subject to rapid change in these economies, and the company may not be able to react quickly enough to protect its assets and business operations. in particular, developing markets in which the company operates may be characterized by one or more of the following: complex and conflicting laws and regulations, which may be inconsistently or arbitrarily enforced; 11 table of contents index to financial statements high incidences of corruption in state regulatory agencies; volatile inflation; widespread poverty and resulting political instability; compliance with laws governing international relations, including u.s. laws that relate to sanctions and corruption; immature legal and banking systems; uncertainty with respect to title to real and personal property; underdeveloped infrastructure; heavy state control of natural resources and energy supplies; state ownership of transportation and supply chain assets; high protective tariffs and inefficient customs processes; and high crime rates. changes in any one or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the prices of raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, labor, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company's products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company's business may be materially adversely affected. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the principal raw materials used in the company's manufacturing operations include triexta, nylon, polypropylene, and polyester resins and fibers, which are used in the company's carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used in the company's ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used in the company's wood and laminate flooring business; and glass fiber, plasticizers, and pvc resins, which are used in the company's vinyl and luxury vinyl tile business. in addition to raw materials, the company sources finished goods. for certain raw materials and sourced products, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company's relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the company to purchase more expensive alternatives. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in the company's business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the company's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company relies on information systems in managing the company's operations and any system failure or deficiencies of such systems may have an adverse effect on the company's business. the company's businesses rely on sophisticated software applications to obtain, process, analyze and manage data. the company relies on these systems to, among other things: facilitate the purchase, management, distribution, and payment for inventory items; manage and monitor the daily operations of our distribution network; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage accurate billing to and collections from customers; control logistics and quality control for our retail operations; manage financial reporting; and monitor point of sale activity. 12 table of contents index to financial statements we also rely on our computer hardware, software and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of data to our sales and distribution systems, and certain of our production processes are managed and conducted by computer. any event that causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increase in the service time, whether caused by human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, system conversion, cyber attacks including and not limited to hacking, intrusions, malware or otherwise, could disrupt our normal operations. there can be no assurance that we can effectively carry out our disaster recovery plan to handle the failure of our information systems, or that we will be able to restore our operational capacity within sufficient time to avoid material disruption to our business. the occurrence of any of these events could cause unanticipated disruptions in service, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction, harm to our reputation and loss or misappropriation of sensitive information, which could result in loss of customers, increased operating expenses and financial losses. any such events could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. the company's inability to maintain its patent licensing revenues in its laminate flooring business could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the profit margins of certain of the company's businesses, particularly the company's laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company's ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the company's principal product families. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company's products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic and pergo family of patents, which protect its interlocking laminate flooring technology. the majority of the uniclic patents expired in 2017. the company continues to develop new sources of revenue that may partially offset the expiration of its revenue-producing patents. the failure to develop alternative revenues could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. the company intends to grow its business through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. acquisitions may require the issuance of additional securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, which may dilute the ownership interests of existing security holders or impose higher interest costs on the company. additional challenges related to the company's acquisition strategy include: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and retaining key employees. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability, or otherwise perform as expected, may result in goodwill or other asset impairments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the company's business. finally, acquisition targets may be subject to material liabilities that are not properly identified in due diligence and that are not covered by seller indemnification obligation or third party insurance. the unknown liabilities of the company's acquisition targets may have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner, or the joint venture company, may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. 13 table of contents index to financial statements a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. as part of the company's business strategy, the company intends to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. although the company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, which may slow the company's growth and have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. the company's international activities are significant to its manufacturing capacity, revenues and profits, and the company is further expanding internationally. the company sells products, operates plants and invests in companies around the world. currently, the company's flooring row segment has significant operations in europe, russia, malaysia, australia and new zealand, and the company's global ceramic segment has significant operations in europe, russia and mexico. in addition, the company has invested in joint ventures in brazil and india related to laminate flooring. the business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the u.s. the company's international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign or domestic tariffs and other trade barriers; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; differing inflationary or deflationary market pressures; foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; differing labor laws and changes in those laws; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; potential difficulties repatriating cash from non-u.s. subsidiaries; and compliance with laws governing international relations, including those u.s. laws that relate to sanctions and corruption. the company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing risks effectively in each location where the company does business, and, therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company's business. negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the company's business. the company is subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation. in calculating the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of profit before tax among these many jurisdictions. however, it also includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results of operations and tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of our tax exposures. 14 table of contents index to financial statements the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company is subject to increasingly numerous and complex laws, regulations and licensing requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which the company conducts business. the company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with such laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the united states. in particular, the company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. for example, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to further limitations on the emission of greenhouse gases due to public policy concerns regarding climate change issues or other environmental or health and safety concerns. while the form of any additional regulations cannot be predicted, a cap-and-trade system similar to the system that applies to our businesses in the european union could be adopted in the united states. the company's manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. any such cap-and-trade system or other limitations imposed on the emission of greenhouse gases could require us to increase our capital expenditures, use our cash to acquire emission credits or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the company's business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events. many of the company's business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. these facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. the company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business. the company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings relating to its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in the ordinary course of business, the company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters. a very large claim or several similar claims asserted by a large class of plaintiffs could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, if the company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the company or settlements relating to these matters. although the company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. further, the company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the company, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect the company's reputation or the reputation and sales of its products. the company's inability to protect its intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on the company's business the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s., countries in the european union and elsewhere, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company's employees, to protect that technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company's pending patent applications will be approved. the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. 15 table of contents index to financial statements furthermore, despite the company's efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company's business. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company's pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company's ability to protect the company's trademarks and impede the company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the company's business. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company's trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company's confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company's growth and future revenue. third parties may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company's products. in the past, third parties have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company's products infringe their patent rights. the company cannot be certain that the company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney's fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses authorizing the use of infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses for disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company's business would be materially and adversely affected. the long-term performance of the company's business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, the company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design, and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. the company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the company's competitive position and its operating results. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company's stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. the company's efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management's time and attention from profit generating activities to compliance activities. 16 table of contents index to financial statements declines in the company's business conditions may result in an impairment of the company's assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a significant or prolonged decrease in the company's market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its assets which results when the carrying value of the company's assets exceed their fair value. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words could, should, believes, anticipates, expects and estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation and deflation in raw material prices and other input costs; inflation and deflation in consumer markets; currency fluctuations; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the company's products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax and tax reform, product and other claims; litigation; regulatory and political changes in the jurisdictions in which we do business; and other risks identified in mohawk's sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. financial exposures to these risks are monitored as an integral part of the company's risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. excluding the hedge of net investment discussed in note 1(n) "hedges of net investments in non-u.s. operations", of our accompanying consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, the company did not have any derivative contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 . interest rate risk as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 43% of the company's debt portfolio was comprised of fixed-rate debt and 57% was floating-rate debt. the company believes that probable near-term changes in interest rates would not materially affect its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the annual impact on interest expense of a one-percentage point interest rate change on the outstanding balance of our variable rate debt as of december 31, 2017 would be approximately $16 million or $0.14 to diluted eps. foreign exchange risk as a result of being a global enterprise, there is exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of the company. principal foreign currency exposures relate primarily to the euro and to a lesser extent the russian ruble, the mexican peso, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the british pound and the malaysian ringgit. the company's objective is to balance, where possible, non-functional currency denominated assets to non-functional currency denominated liabilities to have a natural hedge and minimize foreign exchange impacts. the company enters into cross border transactions through importing and exporting goods to and from different countries and locations. these transactions generate foreign exchange risk as they create assets, liabilities and cash flows in currencies other than their functional currency. this also applies to services provided and other cross border agreements among subsidiaries. the company takes steps to minimize risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through normal operating and financing activities. the company does not enter into any speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. based on financial results for the year ended december 31, 2017 , a hypothetical overall 10 percent change in the u.s. dollar against the euro would have resulted in a translational adjustment of approximately $43 million. 36risk factors 10 risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the company's common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence, income and spending, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. significant or prolonged declines in the u.s. or global economies could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. downturns in the u.s. and global economies negatively impact the floor covering industry and the company's business. during times of economic uncertainty or decline, end consumers tend to spend less on remodeling their homes, which is how the company derives a majority of its sales. likewise, new home construction - and the corresponding need for new flooring materials - tends to slow down during recessionary periods. there may be downturns in the foreseeable future that could cause the industry to deteriorate globally or in the local markets in which the company operates. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial remodeling or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company may be unable to predict customer preferences or demand accurately, or to respond to technological developments. the company operates in a market sector where demand is strongly influenced by rapidly changing customer preferences as to product design, product category and technical features. failure to quickly and effectively respond to changing customer demand or technological developments could have a material adverse effect on the business. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry that could decrease demand for the company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. maintaining the company's competitive position may require substantial investments in the company's product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company's products, force the company to lower prices or prevent the company from raising prices to keep up with inflation. moreover, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and input costs may contribute to more attractive pricing for imports that compete with the company's products, which may put pressure on the company's pricing. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. changes in the global economy could affect the company's overall availability and cost of credit. a downturn in the u.s. or global economies could impact the company's ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness. further, negative economic conditions may factor into the company's periodic credit ratings assessment by moody's investors service, inc. ( moody's ), standard &amp; poor's financial services, llc ( s&amp;p ) and fitch, inc. any future changes in the credit rating agencies' methodology in assessing the company's credit strength and any downgrades in the company's credit ratings could increase the cost of its existing credit and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. the company can provide no assurances that downgrades will not occur. the cost and availability of credit during uncertain economic times could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. 11 table of contents index to financial statements if the company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in its existing credit facilities, it may be required to repay borrowings under the credit facilities prior to their maturity and may lose access to the credit facilities for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations and growth strategy. on march 26, 2015, the company entered into a $1,800 million , senior revolving credit facility (the 2015 senior credit facility ). as of december 31, 2018 , the amount utilized under the 2015 senior credit facility was $1,452.3 million resulting in a total of $347.7 million available. the amount utilized included $1,339.8 million of commercial paper issued, $57.9 million of direct borrowings, and $54.6 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. if the company's cash flow is worse than expected, the company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. if the company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or weakness in the company's businesses, the company's ability to finance its operations or repay existing debt obligations may be materially and adversely affected. additionally, the company's credit facilities include certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the company's financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the company's business. in addition, the 2015 senior credit facility requires the company to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated net leverage ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0. a failure to comply with the obligations contained in our current or future credit facilities or indentures relating to our outstanding public debt could result in an event of default or an acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. we cannot be certain that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company's financial periods. the results of the company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars from the local currency for consolidated reporting. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company's currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company's results between financial periods. the company has significant operations in emerging markets, including brazil, eastern europe, malaysia, mexico and russia, and therefore has exposure to doing business in potentially unstable areas of the world. operations in emerging markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks. market conditions and the political structures that support them are subject to rapid change in these economies, and the company may not be able to react quickly enough to protect its assets and business operations. in particular, developing markets in which the company operates may be characterized by one or more of the following: complex and conflicting laws and regulations, which may be inconsistently or arbitrarily enforced; high incidences of corruption in state regulatory agencies; volatile inflation; widespread poverty and resulting political instability; compliance with laws governing international relations, including u.s. laws that relate to sanctions and corruption; immature legal and banking systems; uncertainty with respect to title to real and personal property; underdeveloped infrastructure; heavy state control of natural resources and energy supplies; state ownership of transportation and supply chain assets; 12 table of contents index to financial statements high protective tariffs and inefficient customs processes; and high crime rates. changes in any one or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company ' business. the prices of raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, labor, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company's products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company's business may be materially adversely affected. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the principal raw materials used in the company's manufacturing operations include triexta, nylon, polypropylene, and polyester resins and fibers, which are used in the company's carpet and rug business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used in the company's ceramic tile business; wood, paper and resins, which are used in the company's wood and laminate flooring business; and glass fiber, plasticizers, and pvc resins, which are used in the company's vinyl and luxury vinyl tile business. in addition to raw materials, the company sources finished goods. for certain raw materials and sourced products, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company's relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the company to purchase more expensive alternatives. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in the company's business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the company's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company makes significant capital investments in its business and such capital investments may not be successful or achieve their intended results. the company's business requires significant capital investment to expand capacity to support its growth, introduce new products and improve operating efficiencies. since 2013, the company has invested approximately $4 billion in capital projects and intends to make similar capital investments in future periods, including between $550-$580 million of capital investments in 2019. while the company believes that many of its past capital investments have been successful, there is no guarantee that the return on investment from the company's recent or future capital projects will be sufficient to recover the expenses and opportunity costs associated with these projects. furthermore, a meaningful portion of the company's capital investment is based on forecasted growth in its business, which is subject to uncertainty such as general economic trends, increased competition and consumer preferences. if the company does not accurately forecast its future capital investment needs, the company could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect its revenues and profitability. the company relies on information systems in managing the company's operations and any system failure or deficiencies of such systems may have an adverse effect on the company's business. the company's businesses rely on sophisticated software applications to obtain, process, analyze and manage data. the company relies on these systems to, among other things: facilitate the purchase, management, distribution, and payment for inventory items; manage and monitor the daily operations of the company's distribution network; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage accurate billing to and collections from customers; control logistics and quality control for the company's retail operations; 13 table of contents index to financial statements manage financial reporting; and monitor point of sale activity. the company also relies on its computer hardware, software and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of data to the company's sales and distribution systems, and certain of the company's production processes are managed and conducted by computer. any event that causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increase in the service time, whether caused by human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, system conversion, cyber attacks including and not limited to hacking, intrusions, malware or otherwise, could disrupt our normal operations. there can be no assurance that the company can effectively carry out our disaster recovery plan to handle the failure of our information systems, or that we will be able to restore our operational capacity within sufficient time to avoid material disruption to our business. the occurrence of any of these events could cause unanticipated disruptions in service, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction, harm to the company's reputation and loss or misappropriation of sensitive information, which could result in loss of customers, increased operating expenses and financial losses. any such events could in turn have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. the company's inability to maintain its patent licensing revenues could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the profit margins of certain of the company's businesses, particularly the company's flooring rest of the world segment, depend in part upon the company's ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the company's principal product families. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company's products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic and pergo family of patents, which protect its interlocking flooring technology. the majority of the uniclic patents expired in 2017. the company continues to develop new sources of revenue that may partially offset the expiration of its revenue-producing patents. the failure to develop alternative revenues could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. the company intends to grow its business through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. acquisitions may require the issuance of additional securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, which may dilute the ownership interests of existing security holders or impose higher interest costs on the company. additional challenges related to the company's acquisition strategy include: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and retaining key employees. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability, or otherwise perform as expected, may result in goodwill or other asset impairments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the company's business. finally, acquisition targets may be subject to material liabilities that are not properly identified in due diligence and that are not covered by seller indemnification obligation or third party insurance. the unknown liabilities of the company's acquisition targets may have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in addition, the company has made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which the company has a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with those of the company. business decisions or other actions or omissions of 14 table of contents index to financial statements the controlling joint venture partner, or the joint venture company, may result in harm to the company's reputation or adversely affect the value of the company's investment in the joint venture. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. as part of the company's business strategy, the company intends to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. although the company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, which may slow the company's growth and have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. the company's international activities are significant to its manufacturing capacity, revenues and profits; and the company is further expanding internationally. the company sells products, operates plants and invests in companies around the world. currently, the company's flooring row segment has significant operations in europe, russia, malaysia, australia and new zealand, and the company's global ceramic segment has significant operations in brazil, europe, russia and mexico. in addition, the company has invested in joint ventures in brazil and india related to laminate flooring. the business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the u.s. the company's international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign or domestic tariffs and other trade barriers; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; differing inflationary or deflationary market pressures; foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; differing labor laws and changes in those laws; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; potential difficulties repatriating cash from non-u.s. subsidiaries; and compliance with laws governing international relations, including those u.s. laws that relate to sanctions and corruption. specifically, in europe, the uncertainty surrounding the u.k.'s participation in the european union and european single market following britain's notice to the european union of its decision to exit the eu ( brexit ) may result in greater restrictions on trade between the uk and eu, which could negatively impact the company's results. additionally, brexit has caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates. sales generated by the company's u.k. businesses may be negatively impacted when they are translated from the british pound to the u.s. dollar. the company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing risks effectively in each location where the company does business, and, therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company's business. 15 table of contents index to financial statements negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the company ' business. the company is subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which it operates. these tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation. in calculating the provision for income taxes, the company must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of profit before tax among these many jurisdictions. however, it also includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. the company's future results of operations and tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of the company's tax exposures. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company is subject to increasingly numerous and complex laws, regulations and licensing requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which the company conducts business. the company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with such laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the united states. in particular, the company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. for example, the company's manufacturing facilities may become subject to further limitations on the emission of greenhouse gases due to public policy concerns regarding climate change issues or other environmental or health and safety concerns. while the form of any additional regulations cannot be predicted, a cap-and-trade system similar to the system that applies to the company's businesses in the european union could be adopted in the united states. the company's manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. any such cap-and-trade system or other limitations imposed on the emission of greenhouse gases could require the company to increase our capital expenditures, use its cash to acquire emission credits or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the company's business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events. many of the company's business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. these facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. the company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business. the company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings relating to its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in the ordinary course of business, the company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters. a very large claim or several similar claims asserted by a large class of plaintiffs could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, if the company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the company or settlements relating to these matters. although the company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. further, the company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. 16 table of contents index to financial statements moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the company, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect the company's reputation or the reputation and sales of its products. the company's inability to protect its intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on the company's business the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s., countries in the european union and elsewhere, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company's employees, to protect that technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company's pending patent applications will be approved. the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. furthermore, despite the company's efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company's business. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company's pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company's ability to protect the company's trademarks and impede the company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the company's business. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company's trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company's confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company's growth and future revenue. third parties may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company's products. in the past, third parties have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company's products infringe their patent rights. the company cannot be certain that the company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney's fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses authorizing the use of infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses for disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company's business would be materially and adversely affected. the long-term performance of the company's business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, the company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design, and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. the company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the company's competitive position and its operating results. 17 table of contents index to financial statements the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company's stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. the company's efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management's time and attention from profit generating activities to compliance activities. the company ' stock price is subject to volatility. the company's stock price has experienced price volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. the company, the flooring industry and the stock market have experienced stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices in ways that may have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. additionally, price volatility over a given period may cause the average price at which the company repurchases its own stock to exceed the stock's price at a given point in time. declines in the company's business conditions may result in an impairment of the company's assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a significant or prolonged decrease in the company's market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its assets which results when the carrying value of the company's assets exceed their fair value. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words could, should, believes, anticipates, expects and estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation and deflation in freight, raw material prices and other input costs; inflation and deflation in consumer markets; currency fluctuations; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the company's products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax and tax reform, product and other claims; litigation; regulatory and political changes in the jurisdictions in which the company does business; and other risks identified in mohawk's sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. financial exposures to these risks are monitored as an integral part of the company's risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. excluding the hedge of net investment discussed in note 1(n) hedges of net investments in non-u.s. operations , of the company's accompanying consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, the company did not have any derivative contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 . interest rate risk as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 36% of the company's debt portfolio was comprised of fixed-rate debt and 64% was floating-rate debt. the company believes that probable near-term changes in interest rates would not materially affect its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the annual impact on interest expense of a one-percentage point interest rate change on the outstanding balance of the company's variable rate debt as of december 31, 2018 would be approximately $21 million or $0.18 to diluted eps. foreign exchange risk as a result of being a global enterprise, there is exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of the company. principal foreign currency exposures relate primarily to the euro and to a lesser extent the russian ruble, the mexican peso, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the british pound and the brazilian real. the company's objective is to balance, where possible, non-functional currency denominated assets to non-functional currency denominated liabilities to have a natural hedge and minimize foreign exchange impacts. the company enters into cross border transactions through importing and exporting goods to and from different countries and locations. these transactions generate foreign exchange risk as they create assets, liabilities and cash flows in currencies other than their functional currency. this also applies to services provided and other cross border agreements among subsidiaries. the company takes steps to minimize risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through normal operating and financing activities. the company does not enter into any speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. based on financial results for the year ended december 31, 2018 , a hypothetical overall 10 percent change in the u.s. dollar against the euro would have resulted in a translational adjustment of approximately $43 million. 38risk factors 12 risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the company's common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence, income and spending, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. significant or prolonged declines in the u.s. or global economies could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. downturns in the u.s. and global economies negatively impact the floor covering industry and the company's business. during times of economic uncertainty or decline, end consumers tend to spend less on remodeling their homes, which is how the company derives a majority of its sales. likewise, new home construction - and the corresponding need for new flooring materials - tends to slow down during recessionary periods. there may be downturns in the foreseeable future that could cause the industry to deteriorate globally or in the local markets in which the company operates. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial remodeling or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company may be unable to predict customer preferences or demand accurately, or to respond to technological developments. the company operates in a market sector where demand is strongly influenced by rapidly changing customer preferences as to product design, product category and technical features. failure to quickly and effectively respond to changing customer demand or technological developments could have a material adverse effect on the business. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry that could decrease demand for the company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. some of the company's competition is from companies located outside of the united states, and these competitors may benefit from lower input costs or state subsidies. also, trade tariffs may impact both the company and our competitors in different and unpredictable ways. maintaining the company's competitive position may require substantial investments in the company's product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company's products, force the company to lower prices or prevent the company from raising prices to keep up with inflation. moreover, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and input costs may contribute to more attractive pricing for imports that compete with the company's products, which may put pressure on the company's pricing. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. changes in the global economy could affect the company's overall availability and cost of credit. a downturn in the u.s. or global economies could impact the company's ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness. further, negative economic conditions may factor into the company's periodic credit ratings assessment by moody's investors service, inc. ( moody's ), standard &amp; poor's financial services, llc ( s&amp;p ) and fitch, inc. any future changes in the credit rating agencies' methodology in assessing the company's credit strength and any downgrades in the company's credit ratings could increase the cost of its existing credit and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. the company can provide no assurances that downgrades will not occur. the cost and availability of credit during uncertain economic times could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. 12 table of contents index to financial statements if the company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in its existing credit facilities, it may be required to repay borrowings under the credit facilities prior to their maturity and may lose access to the credit facilities for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations and growth strategy. on october 18, 2019, the company entered into a $1,800 million, senior revolving credit facility (the senior credit facility ). as of december 31, 2019, the amount utilized under the senior credit facility was $733.5 million resulting in a total of $1,066.5 million available. the amount utilized included $693.9 million of commercial paper issued, $16.8 million of direct borrowings, and $22.8 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. if the company's cash flow is worse than expected, the company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. if the company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or weakness in the company's businesses, the company's ability to finance its operations or repay existing debt obligations may be materially and adversely affected. additionally, the company's credit facilities include certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the company's financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the company's business. in addition, the senior credit facility requires the company to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated net leverage ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0. a failure to comply with the obligations contained in our current or future credit facilities or indentures relating to our outstanding public debt could result in an event of default or an acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. we cannot be certain that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company's financial periods. the results of the company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars from the local currency for consolidated reporting. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company's currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company's results between financial periods. the company has significant operations in emerging markets, including brazil, eastern europe, malaysia, mexico and russia, and therefore has exposure to doing business in potentially unstable areas of the world. operations in emerging markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks. market conditions and the political structures that support them are subject to rapid change in these economies, and the company may not be able to react quickly enough to protect its assets and business operations. in particular, developing markets in which the company operates may be characterized by one or more of the following: complex and conflicting laws and regulations, which may be inconsistently or arbitrarily enforced; high incidences of corruption in state regulatory agencies; volatile inflation; widespread poverty and resulting political instability; compliance with laws governing international relations, including u.s. laws that relate to sanctions and corruption; immature legal and banking systems; uncertainty with respect to title to real and personal property; underdeveloped infrastructure; heavy state control of natural resources and energy supplies; state ownership of transportation and supply chain assets; 13 table of contents index to financial statements high protective tariffs and inefficient customs processes; and high crime rates. changes in any one or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company ' business. the prices of raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, labor, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company's products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company's business may be materially adversely affected. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the principal raw materials used in the company's manufacturing operations include triexta, nylon, polypropylene, and polyester resins and fibers, which are used in the company's carpet and rug business; clay, talc, feldspar and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used in the company's ceramic tile business; wood, paper and resins, which are used in the company's wood and laminate flooring business; and glass fiber, plasticizers, and pvc resins, which are used in the company's sheet vinyl and luxury vinyl tile business. in addition to raw materials, the company sources finished goods. for certain raw materials and sourced products, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company's relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the company to purchase more expensive alternatives. also, our ability to obtain raw materials or source products at reasonable costs may be impacted by tariffs and global trade uncertainties and international health crises. for example, in december 2019, a strain of coronavirus was reported to have surfaced in china. because we source certain products from china, including some of our lvt imports, our supply chain may be negatively impacted. while we continue to monitor the situation, the extent to which the coronavirus may impact our supply chain in the near-term is uncertain. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in the company's business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the company's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company makes significant capital investments in its business and such capital investments may not be successful or achieve their intended results. the company's business requires significant capital investment to expand capacity to support its growth, introduce new products and improve operating efficiencies. since 2013, the company has invested approximately $4.3 billion in capital projects and will continue to make capital investments in future periods, including between $560-$580 million of capital investments in 2020 . while the company believes that many of its past capital investments have been successful, there is no guarantee that the return on investment from the company's recent or future capital projects will be sufficient to recover the expenses and opportunity costs associated with these projects. furthermore, a meaningful portion of the company's capital investment is based on forecasted growth in its business, which is subject to uncertainty such as general economic trends, increased competition and consumer preferences. if the company does not accurately forecast its future capital investment needs, the company could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect its revenues and profitability. the company relies on information systems in managing the company's operations and any system failure or deficiencies of such systems may have an adverse effect on the company's business. the company's businesses rely on sophisticated software applications to obtain, process, analyze and manage data. the company relies on these systems to, among other things: facilitate the purchase, management, distribution, and payment for inventory items; manage and monitor the daily operations of the company's distribution network; 14 table of contents index to financial statements receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage accurate billing to and collections from customers; control logistics and quality control for the company's retail operations; manage financial reporting; and monitor point of sale activity. the company also relies on its computer hardware, software and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of data to the company's sales and distribution systems, and certain of the company's production processes are managed and conducted by computer. any event that causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increase in the service time could disrupt our normal operations. there can be no assurance that the company can effectively carry out our disaster recovery plan to handle the failure of our information systems, or that we will be able to restore our operational capacity within sufficient time to avoid material disruption to our business. the occurrence of any of these events could cause unanticipated disruptions in service, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction, harm to the company's reputation and loss or misappropriation of sensitive information, which could result in loss of customers, increased operating expenses and financial losses. any such events could in turn have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. the company is subject to cybersecurity risks and expects to incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. the company's business employs systems that allow for the secure storage and transmission of customers', consumers', vendors', employees' and its own sensitive and proprietary information. these systems may be subject to computer hacking, acts of vandalism or theft, malware, computer viruses or other malicious codes, phishing, employee error or malfeasance, catastrophes, unforeseen events or other cyber-attacks. any significant compromise or breach of the company's data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, consumer, employee, supplier or company data, could result in significant costs, lost sales, fines, lawsuits, and damage to the company's reputation. furthermore, as cyber-attacks become more sophisticated, the company expects to incur increasing costs to strengthen its systems from outside intrusions and to maintain insurance coverage related to the threat of such attacks. while the company has implemented administrative and technical controls and has taken other preventive actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect its information technology, they may be insufficient to prevent, or respond to, physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to the company's systems. in addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to the company's business, compliance with those requirements could also result in additional costs to the company. any failure to comply with federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against the company by government entities or others. in addition to reputational impacts, penalties could include significant legal liability. the company's inability to maintain its patent licensing revenues could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the profit margins of certain of the company's businesses, particularly the company's flooring rest of the world segment, depend in part upon the company's ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the company's principal product families. the company has filed and is continuing to file patents relating to many different aspects of the company's products and associated methods and is generating patent license revenues on these diverse patents; however, certain revenue-producing patents have expired or will expire. the failure to develop alternative revenues to replace expired or invalidated patents in the future could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. the company intends to grow its business through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. acquisitions may require the issuance of additional securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, which may dilute the 15 table of contents index to financial statements ownership interests of existing security holders or impose higher interest costs on the company. additional challenges related to the company's acquisition strategy include: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and retaining key employees. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability, or otherwise perform as expected, may result in goodwill or other asset impairments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the company's business. finally, acquisition targets may be subject to material liabilities that are not properly identified in due diligence and that are not covered by seller indemnification obligation or third party insurance. the unknown liabilities of the company's acquisition targets may have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in addition, the company has made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which the company has a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with those of the company. business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner, or the joint venture company, may result in harm to the company's reputation or adversely affect the value of the company's investment in the joint venture. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. as part of the company's business strategy, the company intends to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. although the company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, which may slow the company's growth and have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. the company's international activities are significant to its manufacturing capacity, revenues and profits; and the company is further expanding internationally. the company sells products, sources goods, operates plants and invests in companies around the world. currently, the company's flooring row segment has significant operations in europe, russia, malaysia, australia and new zealand, and the company's global ceramic segment has significant operations in brazil, europe, russia and mexico, and the company has invested in joint ventures in brazil and india related to laminate flooring. in addition, the company sources raw materials and finished goods from multiple international locations. the company's international sales, supply chain, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign or domestic tariffs and other trade barriers; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; differing inflationary or deflationary market pressures; foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; 16 table of contents index to financial statements differing labor laws and changes in those laws; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; potential difficulties repatriating cash from non-u.s. subsidiaries; and compliance with laws governing international relations, including those u.s. laws that relate to sanctions and corruption. specifically, in europe, the u.k. left the european union ("brexit") on january 31, 2020, and the terms of a trade deal with the eu are still being negotiated. a new trade deal may result in greater restrictions on trade between the u.k. and the eu, which could negatively impact the company's results. additionally, uncertainty regarding brexit's current transitional phase may cause continued volatility in currency exchange rates. sales generated by the company's u.k. businesses may be negatively impacted when they are translated from the british pound to the u.s. dollar. the company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing risks effectively in each location where the company does business, and, therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company's business. negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the company ' business. the company is subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which it operates. these tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation. in calculating the provision for income taxes, the company must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of profit before tax among these many jurisdictions. however, our provision for income taxes also includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. the company's future results of operations and tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of the company's tax exposures. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company is subject to increasingly numerous and complex laws, regulations and licensing requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which the company conducts business. the company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with such laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis. in particular, the company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. for example, the company's manufacturing facilities may become subject to further limitations on the emission of greenhouse gases due to public policy concerns regarding climate change issues or other environmental or health and safety concerns. while the form of any additional regulations cannot be predicted, a cap-and-trade system similar to the system that applies to the company's businesses in the european union could be adopted in the united states. the company's manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. any such cap-and-trade system or other limitations imposed on the emission of greenhouse gases could require the company to increase our capital expenditures, use its cash to acquire emission credits or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 table of contents index to financial statements the company's business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events. many of the company's business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. these facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. the company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business. the company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings relating to its products, operations and compliance with various laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in the ordinary course of business, the company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters. the company is also subject to various claims related to its operations and its compliance with various corporate laws and regulations. a very large claim or several similar claims asserted by a large class of plaintiffs could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, if the company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the company or settlements relating to these matters. although the company has product liability insurance and other types of insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. further, the company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the company, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect the company's reputation or the reputation and sales of its products. the company's inability to protect its intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on the company's business the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s., countries in the european union and elsewhere, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company's employees, to protect that technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company's pending patent applications will be approved. the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. furthermore, despite the company's efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company's technology without the company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company's patents. the use of the company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company's business. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company's pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company's ability to protect the company's trademarks and impede the company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the company's business. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company's trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company's confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company's growth and future revenue. 18 table of contents index to financial statements third parties may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company's products. in the past, third parties have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company's products infringe their patent rights. the company cannot be certain that the company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney's fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses authorizing the use of infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses for disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company's business would be materially and adversely affected. the long-term performance of the company's business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, the company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design, and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. the company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the company's competitive position and its operating results. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company's stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. the company's efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management's time and attention from profit generating activities to compliance activities. the company ' stock price is subject to volatility. the company's stock price has experienced price volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. the company, the flooring industry and the stock market have experienced stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices in ways that may have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. additionally, price volatility over a given period may cause the average price at which the company repurchases its own stock to exceed the stock's price at a given point in time. declines in the company's business conditions may result in an impairment of the company's assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a significant or prolonged decrease in the company's market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its assets which results when the carrying value of the company's assets exceed their fair value. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words could, should, believes, anticipates, expects and estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation and deflation in freight, raw material prices and other input 19 table of contents index to financial statements costs; inflation and deflation in consumer markets; currency fluctuations; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the company's products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax and tax reform, product and other claims; litigation; regulatory and political changes in the jurisdictions in which the company does business; and other risks identified in mohawk's sec reports and public announcements. 20 table of contents index to financial statements quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. financial exposures to these risks are monitored as an integral part of the company's risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. excluding the hedge of net investment discussed in note 1(n) hedges of net investments in non-u.s. operations , of the company's accompanying consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, the company did not have any derivative contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 . interest rate risk as of december 31, 2019 , approximately 46% of the company's debt portfolio was comprised of fixed-rate debt and 54% was floating-rate debt. the company believes that probable near-term changes in interest rates would not materially affect its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the annual impact on interest expense of a one-percentage point interest rate change on the outstanding balance of the company's variable rate debt as of december 31, 2019 would be approximately $12 million or $ 0.16 to diluted eps. foreign exchange risk as a result of being a global enterprise, there is exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of the company. principal foreign currency exposures relate primarily to the euro and to a lesser extent the russian ruble, the mexican peso, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the british pound and the brazilian real. the company's objective is to balance, where possible, non-functional currency denominated assets to non-functional currency denominated liabilities to have a natural hedge and minimize foreign exchange impacts. the company enters into cross border transactions through importing and exporting goods to and from different countries and locations. these transactions generate foreign exchange risk as they create assets, liabilities and cash flows in currencies other than their functional currency. this also applies to services provided and other cross border agreements among subsidiaries. the company takes steps to minimize risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through normal operating and financing activities. the company does not enter into any speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. based on financial results for the year ended december 31, 2019 , a hypothetical overall 10 percent change in the u.s. dollar against the euro would have resulted in a translational adjustment of approximately $44 million. 38 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors 9 risk factors certain factors affecting the company performance in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the current downturn in the u.s. and global economies, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, has negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company business. these difficult economic conditions may continue or deteriorate in the foreseeable future. further, significant or prolonged declines in such economies or in spending for replacement floor covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the floor covering industry in which the company participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the company derives a majority of the company sales from 9 table of contents the replacement segment of the market. therefore, economic changes that result in a significant or prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the floor covering industry is highly dependent on residential and commercial construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature and currently in a downturn. the current downturn in the u.s. and global economies, along with the housing markets in such economies, has negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company business. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities have also lagged during the current downturn. the difficult economic conditions may continue or deteriorate in the foreseeable future. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. uncertainty in the credit market or downturns in the global economy and the company business could affect the company overall availability and cost of credit. uncertainty in the credit markets could affect the overall availability and cost of credit. the impact of the current situation on our ability to obtain financing, including any financing necessary to refinance our existing senior unsecured notes, in the future, and the cost and terms of it, is uncertain. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. further, these generally negative economic and business conditions may factor into our periodic credit ratings assessment by either or both moody investors service, inc. and standard poor ratings services. the rating agency evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include scale and diversification, brand strength, profitability, leverage, liquidity and interest coverage. during 2009, our senior unsecured notes were downgraded by the rating agencies, which will increase the company interest expense by approximately $10.5 million per year and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. additional downgrades in the company credit ratings could further increase the cost of its existing credit and adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future, and the company can provide no assurances that additional downgrades will not occur. additionally, our credit facilities require us to meet certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations, including limitations relating to debt, investments, asset dispositions and changes in the nature of our business. we are also required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0 during any period that the unutilized amount available under the abl facility is less than 15% of the amount available under the abl facility. failure to comply with these covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations or capital needs and to engage in other activities that may be in our best interest. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry, which could decrease demand for the company products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. some of the company competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the company does. maintaining the company competitive position may require substantial investments in the company product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company products or force the company to lower prices. any of these factors or others may impact demand which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the principal raw materials used in the company manufacturing operations include nylon and polyester and polypropylene and triexta resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the company carpet and rugs business; talc, clay, nepheline syenite and various glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which 10 table of contents are used exclusively in the company ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the company laminate flooring business; and other materials. for certain of such raw materials, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials to the company could lead to an interruption of supply. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials used in the company business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials would disrupt the company operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability. the prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary with market conditions. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company profitability may be materially adversely affected. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company financial periods. the results of the company foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect as of the balance sheet date and for the statement of operations accounts using, principally, the company average rates during the period. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company currency translation risks and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company results between financial periods. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions. the company has typically grown its business through acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. the combination of an acquired company business with the company existing businesses involves risks. the company cannot be assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of goodwill and intangible asset impairment, increased interest costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of debt. the company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the company organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. these challenges may result in: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees. the diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, level of expenses and operating results. 11 table of contents failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could affect the company financial condition and results of operations. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity or otherwise perform as expected, may adversely impact the company financial condition and results of operations. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company business. as part of the company business strategy, the company intends to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses. although the company regularly evaluates acquisition opportunities, the company may not be able successfully to identify suitable acquisition candidates; to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund acquisitions; to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the company existing businesses; or to manage profitably acquired businesses. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to claims and liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could be significant. the company operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment and disposal of materials and finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties. the nature of the company operations, including the potential discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. the company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims. we may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business relating to our products, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if our insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against us or settlements relating to these matters. although we have product liability insurance, our policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against us or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against us, even if the claims were not successful, could adversely affect our reputation or the reputation and sales of our products. regulatory decisions could cause the prices of fuel and energy to fluctuate, and any price increases that result may reduce results of operations. the company manufacturing operations and shipping needs require high inputs of energy, including the use of substantial amounts of electricity, natural gas, and petroleum based products, which are subject to price fluctuations due to changes in supply and demand and are also affected by local, national and international regulatory decisions. significant increases in the cost of these commodities, either as a result of changes in market prices due to regulatory decisions or as a result of additional costs in order to comply with regulatory decisions, may have adverse effects on the company results of operations and cash flows if the company is unable to pass such increases to its customers in a timely manner. 12 table of contents changes in laws or in the business, political and regulatory environments in which the company operates could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company manufacturing facilities in mexico and europe represent a significant portion of the company capacity for ceramic tile and laminate flooring, respectively, and the company european operations represent a significant source of the company revenues and profits. accordingly, an event that has a material adverse impact on either of these operations or that changes the current tax treatment of the results thereof could have a material adverse effect on the company. the business, regulatory and political environments in mexico and europe differ from those in the u.s., and the company mexican and european operations are exposed to legal, currency, tax, political, and economic risks specific to the countries in which they occur, particularly with respect to labor regulations, which tend to be more stringent in europe and, to a lesser extent, mexico. the company cannot assure investors that the company will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company operations or upon the company financial condition and results of operations. if the company is unable to protect the company intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to the company patented laminate flooring technology and the company registered trademarks, the company business and prospects could be harmed. the future success and competitive position of certain of the company businesses, particularly the company laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in the company principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s. and countries in europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company employees, to protect that technology. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic family of patents, which protects unilin interlocking laminate flooring panel technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company pending patent applications will be approved. in addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the company filings, could render the company intellectual property less valuable. furthermore, despite the company efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company technology without the company authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company patents. the use of the company technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company business. in addition, if the company does not obtain sufficient protection for the company intellectual property, the company competitiveness in the markets it serves could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company ability to protect the company trademarks and impede the company marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, 13 table of contents the company competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. companies may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company products. in the past, companies have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company products infringe their patent rights. there can be no assurance that the company will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that the company products infringe, or may infringe, those parties intellectual property rights. the company cannot be certain that the company products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the u.s. and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. furthermore, the company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the company proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. likewise, the company may have similar claims brought against it by competitors. litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the company and divert the efforts of the company technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the company favor. in the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses to disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec and nyse, frequently issue new requirements and regulations, such as the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the company efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. declines in the company business conditions may result in an impairment of the company tangible and intangible assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a decrease in the company market capitalization, including a short-term decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its tangible and intangible assets which results when the carrying value of the company assets exceed their fair value. in 2008, the company goodwill and other intangible assets suffered an impairment and additional impairment charges could occur in future periods. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this annual report on form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, proposed acquisitions, and similar matters, and those that include the words believes, anticipates, forecast, estimates or similar expressions 14 table of contents constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in industry conditions; competition; raw material prices; energy costs; timing and level of capital expenditures; integration of acquisitions; legislative enactments and regulatory decisions; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial exposures are managed as an integral part of the company risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of exchange rates and natural gas markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. natural gas risk management the company uses a combination of natural gas futures contracts and long-term supply agreements to manage unanticipated changes in natural gas prices. the contracts are based on forecasted usage of natural gas measured in million british thermal units ( mmbtu ). the company has designated the natural gas futures contracts as cash flow hedges. the outstanding contracts are valued at market with the offset applied to other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes and any hedge ineffectiveness. 32 table of contents any gain or loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in cost of sales in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. as of december 31, 2009, the company had no outstanding natural gas contracts. as of december 31, 2008, the company had natural gas contracts that mature from january 2009 to december 2009 with an aggregate notional amount of approximately 2,650 thousand mmbtu s. the fair value of these contracts was a liability of $5.9 million as of december 31, 2008. the offset to these liabilities is recorded in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes. the ineffective portion of the derivative is recognized in the cost of sales within the consolidated statements of operations and was not significant for the periods reported. the company natural gas long-term supply agreements are accounted for under the normal purchase provision within asc 815, formerly sfas no. 133 and its amendments. as of december 31, 2009, the company had no outstanding normal purchase commitments for natural gas. as of december 31, 2008, the company had normal purchase commitments of approximately 2,026 thousand mmbtu for periods maturing from january 2009 through december 2009. the contracted value of these commitments was approximately $17.2 million as of december 31, 2008. foreign currency rate management the company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign denominated costs associated with its operations in mexico. the objective of these transactions is to reduce volatility of exchange rates where these operations are located by fixing a portion of their costs in u.s. currency. accordingly, these contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges. gains and losses are reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in cost of sales in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. the company had no outstanding forward contracts to purchase mexican pesos as of december 31, 2009. the company had forward contracts to purchase approximately 269.1 million mexican pesos as of december 31, 2008. the aggregate u.s. dollar value of these contracts as of december 31, 2008 was approximately $23.9 million and the fair value of these contracts was a liability of approximately $5.2 million. 33 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors certain factors affecting the company performance in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the company common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the downturn in the u.s. and global economies beginning in 2006, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company business. while overall economic conditions and the housing and flooring industries have begun to show signs of recovering, this improvement may be temporary and economic conditions may deteriorate in the foreseeable future. further, significant or prolonged declines in such economies or in spending for replacement floor covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the floor covering industry in which the company participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the company derives a majority of its sales from the 9 table of contents replacement segment of the market. therefore, economic changes that result in a significant or prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the floor covering industry is highly dependent on residential and commercial construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature and currently in a downturn. the downturn in the u.s. and global economies, along with the housing markets in such economies, negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company business. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities have also lagged during the downturn. while overall economic conditions and the housing and flooring industries have begun to show signs of recovering, this improvement may be temporary and economic conditions may deteriorate in the foreseeable future. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability. the prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs could vary significantly with market conditions. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company profitability may be materially adversely affected. uncertainty in the credit market or downturns in the global economy and the company business could affect the company overall availability and cost of credit. uncertainty in the credit markets could affect the overall availability and cost of credit. despite recent improvement in overall economic conditions, the impact of the economic downturn on the company ability to obtain financing, including any financing necessary to refinance its existing senior unsecured notes, in the future, and the cost and terms of it, remains uncertain. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for the company products and on its financial condition and operating results. further, these generally negative economic and business conditions may factor into the company periodic credit ratings assessment by either or both moody investors service, inc. and standard poor ratings services. a rating agency evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include scale and diversification, brand strength, profitability, leverage, liquidity and interest coverage. during 2009, the company senior unsecured notes were downgraded by the rating agencies, which increased the company interest expense by approximately $0.2 million per quarter per $100 million of outstanding notes and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. additional downgrades in the company credit ratings could further increase the cost of its existing credit and adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future, and the company can provide no assurances that additional downgrades will not occur. the company has a significant level of indebtedness that must be repaid or refinanced. in addition, if the company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in the abl facility, it may be required to repay borrowings under the abl facility prior to their maturity and may lose access to the abl facility for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations. the company outstanding 7.20% senior notes in the aggregate amount of $400.0 million are due april 15, 2012. the company $600.0 million four-year, senior, secured revolving credit facility (the abl facility ) is scheduled to mature on september 2, 2013, but the maturity date will accelerate, including the acceleration of any unamortized deferred financing costs, to january 15, 2012, if the company outstanding 7.20% senior notes due april 15, 2012 have not been repaid, refinanced, defeased or adequately reserved for by the company, as reasonably determined by the administrative agent, prior to january 15, 2012. the company believes it will be able to make adequate reserves for such senior notes with cash and cash 10 table of contents equivalents, unutilized borrowing availability under the abl facility and other financing sources, including public debt markets or new bank facilities. as of december 31, 2010, the amount utilized under the abl facility was $387.1 million resulting in a total of $169.6 million available under the abl facility. the amount utilized included the reserved amount of $280.0 million related to the repayment of the company outstanding 5.75% senior notes due january 15, 2011, $53.5 million of standby letters of credit guaranteeing the company industrial revenue bonds and $53.5 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. immediately following the repayment of the 5.75% senior notes due january 15, 2011 at maturity, a total of $289.6 million was available under the abl facility. while the company currently believes it has access to other uncommitted financing sources, including public debt markets, to satisfy the january 15, 2012 requirements under the abl facility and the subsequent repayment of the 7.20% senior notes due april 15, 2012, there can be no assurances that the company will be able to complete any necessary financing transactions prior to the relevant date under the abl facility or the april 15, 2012 maturity date. if the company cash flow is worse than expected or the borrowing base on its abl facility declines, the company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness in the public debt markets and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. if the company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, it could materially adversely affect the company ability to repay its indebtedness and otherwise have a substantial adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. additionally, the company credit facilities require it to meet certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on its financial and business operations, including limitations relating to debt, investments, asset dispositions and changes in the nature of its business. the company is also required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0 during any period that the unutilized amount available under the abl facility is less than 15% of the amount available under the abl facility. failure to comply with these covenants could materially and adversely affect the company ability to finance its operations or capital needs and to engage in other activities that may be in the company best interest. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry, which could decrease demand for the company products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. some of the company competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the company does. maintaining the company competitive position may require substantial investments in the company product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company products or force the company to lower prices. any of these factors or others may impact demand which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the principal raw materials used in the company manufacturing operations include nylon, polypropylene, triexta and polyester resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the company carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the company ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the company laminate flooring business. for certain of such raw materials, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials to the company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the company to purchase more expensive alternatives. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials used in the company business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials would disrupt the company operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. 11 table of contents fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company financial periods. the results of the company foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect as of the balance sheet date and for the statement of operations accounts using, principally, the company average rates during the period. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company currency translation risks and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company results between financial periods. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. the company has typically grown its business through acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. the combination of an acquired company business with the company existing businesses involves risks. the company cannot be assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of goodwill and intangible asset impairment, increased interest costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of debt. the company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the company organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. these challenges may result in: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees. the diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, level of expenses and operating results. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could affect the company financial condition and results of operations. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity or otherwise perform as expected, may adversely impact the company financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. the controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. 12 table of contents a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company business. as part of the company business strategy, the company intends to continue to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. although the company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the company may not be able successfully to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities, to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the company existing businesses, or to manage profitably acquired businesses or strategic investments. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could be significant. the company and its customers and suppliers are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements. the company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with and enforcement of increasingly numerous and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the united states. further, the company operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. for example, enactment of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the u.s. congress or various states, or the adoption of regulations by the epa and analogous state or foreign governmental agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which the company conducts business could have an adverse effect on its operations and demand for its products. the company manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. increased regulation of energy use to address the possible emission of greenhouse gases and climate change could materially increase the company manufacturing costs. the nature of the company business and operations, including the potential discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. the company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims. the company business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events. many of the company business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. these facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. the company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business relating to its products, which could affect its results of operations and financial condition. in the ordinary course of business, the company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to the company. such matters could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition if the company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its 13 table of contents insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the company or settlements relating to these matters. although the company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. further, the company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the company, even if the claims were not successful, could adversely affect the company reputation or the reputation and sales of its products. the company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. the company manufacturing facilities in mexico and europe represent a significant portion of the company capacity for ceramic tile and laminate flooring, respectively, and the company european operations represent a significant source of the company revenues and profits. the business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the u.s. in addition, the company increasingly sells products, operates plants and invests in companies in other parts of the world. the company international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; political, legal and economic instability; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; inflation; differing labor laws and changes in those laws; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; and tax inefficiencies and currency exchange controls that may adversely impact its ability to repatriate cash from non-u.s. subsidiaries. the company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company operations or upon its financial condition and results of operations. if the company is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to the company patented laminate flooring technology and its registered trademarks, the company business and prospects could be harmed. the future success and competitive position of certain of the company businesses, particularly the company laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in the company principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s. and countries in europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company employees, to protect that technology. 14 table of contents the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic family of patents, which protects unilin interlocking laminate flooring panel technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company pending patent applications will be approved. in addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the company filings, could render the company intellectual property less valuable. furthermore, despite the company efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company technology without the company authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company patents. the use of the company technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company business. in addition, if the company does not obtain sufficient protection for the company intellectual property, the company competitiveness in the markets it serves could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company ability to protect the company trademarks and impede the company marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. companies may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company products. in the past, companies have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company products infringe their patent rights. there can be no assurance that the company will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that the company products infringe, or may infringe, those parties intellectual property rights. the company cannot be certain that the company products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the u.s. and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. furthermore, the company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the company proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. likewise, the company may have similar claims brought against it by competitors. litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the company and divert the efforts of the company technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the company favor. in the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses to disputed technology or 15 table of contents intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and new york stock exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. the company efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. declines in the company business conditions may result in an impairment of the company tangible and intangible assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a decrease in the company market capitalization, including a short-term decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its tangible and intangible assets which results when the carrying value of the company assets exceed their fair value. in 2008, the company goodwill and other intangible assets suffered an impairment and additional impairment charges could occur in future periods. the long-term performance of the company business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, the company must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design and innovation and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. the company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the company competitive position and its operating results. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, proposed acquisitions, and similar matters, and those that include the words believes, anticipates, forecast, estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; raw material prices; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the company products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; claims; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial exposures are monitored as an integral part of the company risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of exchange rates and natural gas markets may have on its operating results. from time to time the company enters into derivative contracts to manage these risks. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. the company did not have any derivative contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2010 and 2009. 33 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors certain factors affecting the company's performance in addition to the other information provided in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels and demand for housing. a prolonged decline in spending for replacement floor covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the floor covering industry in which the company participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending and interest rate levels. the company derives a majority of the company sales from the replacement segment of the market. therefore, economic changes that result in a prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the floor covering industry is highly dependent on construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, a prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the construction industry has experienced significant downturns in the past, which have adversely affected suppliers to the industry. the industry could experience similar downturns in the future, which could have a negative impact on the company business. the company may be unable to pass increases in the costs of raw materials and fuel-related costs on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability. the prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary with market conditions. the company costs for carpet raw materials and fuel-related materials are currently higher than historical averages and may remain so indefinitely. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company profitability may be materially adversely affected. 10 table of contents the company faces intense competition in the industry, which could decrease demand for the company products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. some of the company competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the company does. maintaining the company competitive position may require substantial investments in the company product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company products or force the company to lower prices. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions. the company has typically grown its business through acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company can not give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. the combination of an acquired company business with the company existing businesses involves risks. the company can not be assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of goodwill and intangible asset impairment, increased interest costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of debt. the company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the company organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. these challenges may result in: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees. the diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, level of expenses and operating results. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could affect the company financial condition and results of operations. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity or otherwise not perform as expected, may adversely impact the company financial condition and results of operations. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company business. as part of the company business strategy, the company intends to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses. although the company regularly evaluates acquisition opportunities, the company may not be able successfully to identify suitable acquisition candidates; to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund acquisitions; to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the company existing businesses; or to manage profitably acquired businesses. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the principal raw materials used in the company manufacturing operations include nylon and polyester and polypropylene resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the company carpet and rugs business; talc, 11 table of contents clay, nepheline syenite and various glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the company ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the company laminate flooring business; and other materials. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials used in the company business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials would disrupt the company operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to claims and liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could be significant. the company operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties. the nature of the company operations, including the potential discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. the company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims. changes in international trade laws and in the business, political and regulatory environment in mexico and europe could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company manufacturing facilities in mexico and europe represent a significant portion of the company capacity for ceramic tile and laminate flooring, respectively. in addition, as a result of the unilin acquisition, the company now has more significant general operations abroad, particularly in europe. accordingly, an event that has a material adverse impact on either operation could have a material adverse effect on the company. the business, regulatory and political environments in mexico and in europe differ from those in the united states, and the company mexican and european operations are exposed to legal, currency, tax, political, and economic risks specific to the countries in which they occur, particularly with respect to labor regulations, which tend to be more stringent in europe and, to a lesser extent, mexico. the company cannot assure investors that the company will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company operations or upon the company financial condition and results of operations. the company could face increased competition as a result of the agreements under world trade organization ( wto ) and the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ). the company is uncertain what effect reduced import duties pursuant to agreements under the wto may have on the company operations, although these reduced rates may stimulate additional competition from manufacturers that export ceramic tile to the united states. although nafta lowers the tariffs imposed on the company ceramic tile manufactured in mexico and sold in the united states and will eliminate such tariffs entirely on january 1, 2008, it may also stimulate competition in the united states and canada from manufacturers located in mexico. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company financial periods. the results of the company foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for the statement of earnings accounts using the company weighted average rates during the period. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do 12 table of contents so in the future. although the company has not yet experienced material losses due to foreign currency fluctuation, the company may not be able to manage effectively the company currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of the company debt and results of operations and affect comparability of the company results between financial periods. if the company is unable to protect the company intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to the company patented laminate flooring technology and the company registered trademarks, the company business and prospects could be harmed. the future success and competitive position of certain of the company businesses, particularly the company laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in the company principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the united states and countries in europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company employees, to protect that technology. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic &reg; family of patents, which protects unilin interlocking laminate flooring panel technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company pending patent applications will be approved. in addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the company filings, could render the company intellectual property less valuable. furthermore, despite the company efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company technology without the company authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company patents. the use of the company technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company business. in addition, if the company does not obtain sufficient protection for the company intellectual property, the company competitiveness in the markets it serves could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the united states and in other countries could limit the company ability to protect the company trademarks and impede the company marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. the company requires third parties with access to the company trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. companies may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company products. in the past the company has had companies claim that certain technologies incorporated in the company products infringe their patent rights. there can be no assurance that the company will not receive notices in the 13 table of contents future from parties asserting that the company products infringe, or may infringe, those parties intellectual property rights. the company cannot be certain that the company products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the united states and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. furthermore, the company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the company proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. likewise, the company may have similar claims brought against it by competitors. litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the company and divert the efforts of the company technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the company favor. in the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorneys fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses to disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec and nyse, have in recent years issued new requirements and regulations, most notably the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. from time to time since the adoption of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, these authorities have continued to develop additional regulations or interpretations of existing regulations. the company efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this annual report on form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, proposed acquisitions, and similar matters, and those that include the words believes, anticipates, forecast, estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in industry conditions; competition; raw material prices; energy costs; timing and level of capital expenditures; integration of acquisitions; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk's sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial exposures are managed as an integral part of the company's risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of exchange rates and natural gas markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. natural gas risk management the company uses a combination of natural gas futures contracts and long-term supply agreements to manage unanticipated changes in natural gas prices. the contracts are based on forecasted usage of natural gas measured in million british thermal units ( mmbtu ). the company has designated the natural gas futures contracts as cash flow hedges. the outstanding contracts are valued at market with the offset applied to other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes and any hedge ineffectiveness. any gain or loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in cost of goods sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. at december 31, 2006, the company had natural gas contracts that mature from january 2007 to october 2007 with an aggregate notional amount of approximately 1,400 mmbtu's. the fair value of these contracts was a liability of $2.4 million as of december 31, 2006. at december 31, 2005, the company had natural gas contracts that matured from january 2006 to october 2006 with an aggregate notional amount of approximately 660 thousand mmbtu's. the fair value of these contracts was an asset of $1.9 million as of december 31, 2005. the offset to these assets is recorded in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes. the ineffective portion of the 27 table of contents derivative is recognized directly in the cost of goods sold within the consolidated statements of earnings and was not significant for the periods reported. the amount that the company anticipates will be reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income in the next twelve months is a loss of approximately $2.4 million, net of taxes. the company's natural gas long-term supply agreements are accounted for under the normal purchases provision within sfas no. 133 and its amendments. at december 31, 2006, the company had normal purchase commitments of approximately 1,748 mmbtu's for periods maturing from january 2007 through march 2008. the contracted value of these commitments was approximately $15.4 million and the fair value of these commitments was approximately $12.1 million, at december 31, 2006. at december 31, 2005, the company had normal purchase commitments of approximately 1,867 mmbtu's for periods maturing from january 2006 through october 2006. the contracted value of these commitments was approximately $17.2 million and the fair value of these commitments was approximately $20.5 million, at december 31, 2005. foreign currency rate management the company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign denominated costs associated with its operations in mexico. the objective of these transactions is to reduce volatility of exchange rates where these operations are located by fixing a portion of their costs in u.s. currency. accordingly, these contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges. gains and losses are reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in cost of goods sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. the company had no forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2006. the company had forward contracts to purchase approximately 8 million mexican pesos at december 31, 2005. the aggregate u.s. dollar value of these contracts at december 31, 2005 was approximately $0.7 million. 28 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors certain factors affecting the company performance in addition to the other information provided in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the current downturn in the u.s. housing market has negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company business and further significant or prolonged declines in spending for replacement floor covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the floor covering industry in which the company participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the company derives a majority of the company sales from the replacement segment of the market. therefore, economic changes that result in a significant or prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the floor covering industry is highly dependent on construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature and currently in a downturn. the current downturn in the u.s. housing market has negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company business. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities have also lagged during the current downturn. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company may be unable to pass increases in the costs of raw materials and fuel-related costs on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability. the prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary with market conditions. the company costs for carpet raw materials and fuel-related materials are currently higher than historical averages and may remain so indefinitely. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company profitability may be materially adversely affected. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry, which could decrease demand for the company products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. some of the company competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the company does. maintaining the company competitive position may 10 table of contents require substantial investments in the company product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company products or force the company to lower prices. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions. the company has typically grown its business through acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company can not give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. the combination of an acquired company business with the company existing businesses involves risks. the company can not be assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of goodwill and intangible asset impairment, increased interest costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of debt. the company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the company organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. these challenges may result in: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees. the diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, level of expenses and operating results. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could affect the company financial condition and results of operations. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity or otherwise not perform as expected, may adversely impact the company financial condition and results of operations. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company business. as part of the company business strategy, the company intends to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses. although the company regularly evaluates acquisition opportunities, the company may not be able successfully to identify suitable acquisition candidates; to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund acquisitions; to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the company existing businesses; or to manage profitably acquired businesses. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the principal raw materials used in the company manufacturing operations include nylon and polyester and polypropylene resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the company carpet and rugs business; talc, clay, nepheline syenite and various glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the company ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the company laminate flooring business; and other materials. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials used in the company business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials would disrupt the company operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. 11 table of contents the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to claims and liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could be significant. the company operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties. the nature of the company operations, including the potential discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. the company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims. changes in international trade laws and in the business, political and regulatory environment in mexico and europe could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company manufacturing facilities in mexico and europe represent a significant portion of the company capacity for ceramic tile and laminate flooring, respectively. accordingly, an event that has a material adverse impact on either of these operations could have a material adverse effect on the company. the business, regulatory and political environments in mexico and europe differ from those in the u.s., and the company mexican and european operations are exposed to legal, currency, tax, political, and economic risks specific to the countries in which they occur, particularly with respect to labor regulations, which tend to be more stringent in europe and, to a lesser extent, mexico. the company cannot assure investors that the company will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company operations or upon the company financial condition and results of operations. the company could face increased competition as a result of the agreements under world trade organization ( wto ) and the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ). the company is uncertain what effect reduced import duties pursuant to agreements under the wto may have on the company operations, although these reduced rates may stimulate additional competition from manufacturers that export ceramic tile to the united states. although nafta eliminated tariffs imposed on the company ceramic tile manufactured in mexico and sold in the united states effective january 1, 2008, it may also stimulate competition in the united states and canada from manufacturers located in mexico. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company financial periods. the results of the company foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for the statement of earnings accounts using the company weighted average rates during the period. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. although the company has not yet experienced material losses due to foreign currency fluctuation, the company may not be able to manage effectively the company currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of the company debt and results of operations and affect comparability of the company results between financial periods. 12 table of contents if the company is unable to protect the company intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to the company patented laminate flooring technology and the company registered trademarks, the company business and prospects could be harmed. the future success and competitive position of certain of the company businesses, particularly the company laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in the company principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s. and countries in europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company employees, to protect that technology. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic &reg; family of patents, which protects unilin interlocking laminate flooring panel technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company pending patent applications will be approved. in addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the company filings, could render the company intellectual property less valuable. furthermore, despite the company efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company technology without the company authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company patents. the use of the company technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company business. in addition, if the company does not obtain sufficient protection for the company intellectual property, the company competitiveness in the markets it serves could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company ability to protect the company trademarks and impede the company marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. the company requires third parties with access to the company trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. companies may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company products. in the past the company has had companies claim that certain technologies incorporated in the company products infringe their patent rights. there can be no assurance that the company will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that the company products infringe, or may infringe, those parties intellectual property rights. the company cannot be certain that the company products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the u.s. and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. 13 table of contents furthermore, the company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the company proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. likewise, the company may have similar claims brought against it by competitors. litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the company and divert the efforts of the company technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the company favor. in the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorneys fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses to disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec and nyse, have in recent years issued new requirements and regulations, most notably the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. from time to time since the adoption of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, these authorities have continued to develop additional regulations or interpretations of existing regulations. the company efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this annual report on form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, proposed acquisitions, and similar matters, and those that include the words believes, anticipates, forecast, estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in industry conditions; competition; raw material prices; energy costs; timing and level of capital expenditures; integration of acquisitions; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial exposures are managed as an integral part of the company risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of exchange rates and natural gas markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. 28 table of contents natural gas risk management the company uses a combination of natural gas futures contracts and long-term supply agreements to manage unanticipated changes in natural gas prices. the contracts are based on forecasted usage of natural gas measured in million british thermal units ( mmbtu ). the company has designated the natural gas futures contracts as cash flow hedges. the outstanding contracts are valued at market with the offset applied to other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes and any hedge ineffectiveness. any gain or loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in cost of goods sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. at december 31, 2007, the company had natural gas contracts that mature from january 2008 to march 2008 with an aggregate notional amount of approximately 310 thousand mmbtu s. the fair value of these contracts was a liability of $0.3 million as of december 31, 2007. at december 31, 2006, the company had natural gas contracts that matured from january 2007 to october 2007 with an aggregate notional amount of approximately 1,400 thousand mmbtu s. the fair value of these contracts was a liability of $2.4 million as of december 31, 2006. the offset to these assets is recorded in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes. the ineffective portion of the derivative is recognized in the cost of goods sold within the consolidated statements of earnings and was not significant for the periods reported. the amount that the company anticipates will be reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income in the next twelve months is a loss of approximately $0.3 million, net of taxes. the company natural gas long-term supply agreements are accounted for under the normal purchase provision within sfas no. 133 and its amendments. at december 31, 2007, the company had normal purchase commitments of approximately 303 thousand mmbtu for periods maturing from january 2008 through march 2008. the contracted value of these commitments was approximately $2.8 million at december 31, 2007. at december 31, 2006, the company had normal purchase commitments of approximately 1,748 thousand mmbtu for periods maturing from january 2007 through march 2008. the contracted value of these commitments was approximately $15.4 million at december 31, 2006. foreign currency rate management the company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign denominated costs associated with its operations in mexico. the objective of these transactions is to reduce volatility of exchange rates where these operations are located by fixing a portion of their costs in u.s. currency. accordingly, these contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges. gains and losses are reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in cost of goods sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. the company had forward contracts to purchase approximately 244.0 million mexican pesos at december 31, 2007. the aggregate u.s. dollar value of these contracts at december 31, 2007 was approximately $21.8 million and the fair value of these contracts was an asset of approximately $0.2 million. the company had no forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2006. 29 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors certain factors affecting the company performance in addition to the other information provided in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. the current uncertainty in the credit markets, downturns in the global economy and the company business could affect the overall availability and cost of credit. the current uncertainty in the credit markets could also limit demand for our products, and affect the overall availability and cost of credit. at this time, it is unclear whether and to what extent the actions taken by the u.s. government, and other measures currently being implemented or contemplated, will mitigate the effects of the situation. while we do not anticipate any immediate need to access the credit markets, the impact of the current situation on our ability to obtain financing in the future, and the cost and terms of it, is uncertain. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. further, these generally negative economic and business conditions may factor into our periodic credit ratings assessment by either or both moody investors service, inc. and standard &amp; poor ratings services. the rating agency evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include scale and diversification, brand strength, profitability, leverage, liquidity and interest coverage. on november 7, 2008, moody investors service, inc. announced that it placed the company baa3 long term rating on review for possible downgrade. on february 25, 2009, moody investors service, inc. announced that it had downgraded its ratings on the company senior unsecured notes to ba1 from baa3 and was maintaining a negative rating outlook, following the completion of its rating review. this downgrade will increase the company interest expense by approximately $3.5 million per year and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. additional downgrades in the company credit rating could further increase the cost of its existing credit and adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future, and the company can provide no assurances that additional downgrades will not occur. additionally, our credit facilities require us to meet certain financial covenants, including certain debt to capitalization ratios. failure to comply with these covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations or capital needs and to engage in other activities that may be in our best interest. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the current downturn in the u.s. and global economies, along with the housing markets in such economies, has negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company business. these difficult economic conditions may continue or deteriorate in the foreseeable future. further, significant or prolonged declines in such economies or in spending for replacement floor covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the floor covering industry in which the company participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the company derives a majority of the company sales from the 10 table of contents index to financial statements replacement segment of the market. therefore, economic changes that result in a significant or prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the floor covering industry is highly dependent on construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature and currently in a downturn. the current downturn in the u.s. and global economies, along with the housing markets in such economies, has negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company business. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities have also lagged during the current downturn. the difficult economic conditions may continue or deteriorate in the foreseeable future. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass cost increases of raw materials and fuel-related costs on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability. the prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary with market conditions. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company profitability may be materially adversely affected. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry, which could decrease demand for the company products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. some of the company competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the company does. maintaining the company competitive position may require substantial investments in the company product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the company products or force the company to lower prices. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company may be unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the principal raw materials used in the company manufacturing operations include nylon and polyester and polypropylene resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the company carpet and rugs business; talc, clay, nepheline syenite and various glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the company ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the company laminate flooring business; and other materials. for certain of such raw materials, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials to the company could lead to an interruption of supply. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials used in the company business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials would disrupt the company operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. 11 table of contents index to financial statements fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company financial periods. the results of the company foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for the statement of operations accounts using, principally, the company average rates during the period. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company results between financial periods. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions. the company has typically grown its business through acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. the combination of an acquired company business with the company existing businesses involves risks. the company cannot be assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of goodwill and intangible asset impairment, increased interest costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of debt. the company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the company organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. these challenges may result in: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees. the diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, level of expenses and operating results. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could affect the company financial condition and results of operations. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity or otherwise perform as expected, may adversely impact the company financial condition and results of operations. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company business. as part of the company business strategy, the company intends to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses. although the company regularly evaluates acquisition opportunities, the company may not be able successfully to identify suitable acquisition candidates; to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund acquisitions; to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the company existing businesses; or to manage profitably acquired businesses. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to claims and liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could be significant. the company operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment and disposal of 12 table of contents index to financial statements hazardous materials. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties. the nature of the company operations, including the potential discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. the company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims. changes in international trade laws and in the business, political and regulatory environment in mexico and europe could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company manufacturing facilities in mexico and europe represent a significant portion of the company capacity for ceramic tile and laminate flooring, respectively. accordingly, an event that has a material adverse impact on either of these operations could have a material adverse effect on the company. the business, regulatory and political environments in mexico and europe differ from those in the u.s., and the company mexican and european operations are exposed to legal, currency, tax, political, and economic risks specific to the countries in which they occur, particularly with respect to labor regulations, which tend to be more stringent in europe and, to a lesser extent, mexico. the company cannot assure investors that the company will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company operations or upon the company financial condition and results of operations. if the company is unable to protect the company intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to the company patented laminate flooring technology and the company registered trademarks, the company business and prospects could be harmed. the future success and competitive position of certain of the company businesses, particularly the company laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in the company principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s. and countries in europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company employees, to protect that technology. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic &reg; family of patents, which protects unilin interlocking laminate flooring panel technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company pending patent applications will be approved. in addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the company filings, could render the company intellectual property less valuable. furthermore, despite the company efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company technology without the company authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company patents. the use of the company technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company business. in addition, if the company does not obtain sufficient protection for the company intellectual property, the company competitiveness in the markets it serves could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company pending or future applications will be 13 table of contents index to financial statements approved by the applicable governmental authorities. moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company ability to protect the company trademarks and impede the company marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. companies may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company products. in the past, companies have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company products infringe their patent rights. there can be no assurance that the company will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that the company products infringe, or may infringe, those parties intellectual property rights. the company cannot be certain that the company products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the u.s. and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. furthermore, the company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the company proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. likewise, the company may have similar claims brought against it by competitors. litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the company and divert the efforts of the company technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the company favor. in the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses to disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec and nyse, have in recent years issued new requirements and regulations, most notably the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. from time to time since the adoption of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, these authorities have continued to develop additional regulations or interpretations of existing regulations. the company efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. 14 table of contents index to financial statements declines in the company business conditions may result in an impairment of the company tangible and intangible assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a decrease in the company market capitalization, including a short-term decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its tangible and intangible assets which results when the carrying value of the company assets exceed their fair value. in 2008, the company goodwill and other intangible assets suffered an impairment and additional impairment charges could occur in future periods. forward-looking information certain of the statements in this annual report on form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, proposed acquisitions, and similar matters, and those that include the words believes, anticipates, forecast, estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in industry conditions; competition; raw material prices; energy costs; timing and level of capital expenditures; integration of acquisitions; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial exposures are managed as an integral part of the company risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of exchange rates and natural gas markets may have on its operating results. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. 32 table of contents index to financial statements natural gas risk management the company uses a combination of natural gas futures contracts and long-term supply agreements to manage unanticipated changes in natural gas prices. the contracts are based on forecasted usage of natural gas measured in million british thermal units ( mmbtu ). the company has designated the natural gas futures contracts as cash flow hedges. the outstanding contracts are valued at market with the offset applied to other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes and any hedge ineffectiveness. any gain or loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in cost of goods sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. at december 31, 2008, the company had natural gas contracts that mature from january 2009 to december 2009 with an aggregate notional amount of approximately 2,650 thousand mmbtu s. the fair value of these contracts was a liability of $5.9 million at december 31, 2008. at december 31, 2007, the company had natural gas contracts that mature from january 2008 to march 2008 with an aggregate notional amount of approximately 310 thousand mmbtu s. the fair value of these contracts was a liability of $0.3 million at december 31, 2007. the offset to these liabilities is recorded in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes. the ineffective portion of the derivative is recognized in the cost of goods sold within the consolidated statements of operations and was not significant for the periods reported. the amount that the company anticipates will be reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the next twelve months is a loss of approximately $3.8 million, net of taxes. the company natural gas long-term supply agreements are accounted for under the normal purchase provision within sfas no. 133 and its amendments. at december 31, 2008, the company had normal purchase commitments of approximately 2,026 thousand mmbtu for periods maturing from january 2009 through december 2009. the contracted value of these commitments was approximately $17.2 million at december 31, 2008. at december 31, 2007, the company had normal purchase commitments of approximately 303 thousand mmbtu for periods maturing from january 2008 through march 2008. the contracted value of these commitments was approximately $2.8 million at december 31, 2007. foreign currency rate management the company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign denominated costs associated with its operations in mexico. the objective of these transactions is to reduce volatility of exchange rates where these operations are located by fixing a portion of their costs in u.s. currency. accordingly, these contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges. gains and losses are reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in cost of goods sold in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. the company had forward contracts to purchase approximately 269.1 million mexican pesos at december 31, 2008. the aggregate u.s. dollar value of these contracts at december 31, 2008 was approximately $23.9 million and the fair value of these contracts was a liability of approximately $5.2 million. the company had forward contracts to purchase approximately 244.0 million mexican pesos at december 31, 2007. the aggregate u.s. dollar value of these contracts at december 31, 2007 was approximately $21.8 million and the fair value of these contracts was an asset of approximately $0.2 million. 33 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors 10 risk factors certain factors affecting the company performance in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the company common stock. if any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. the floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the downturn in the u.s. and global economies beginning in 2006, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company business. it is not known when economic conditions will improve or whether they will deteriorate further. further, significant or prolonged declines in such economies or in spending for replacement floor covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the floor covering industry in which the company participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. the company derives a majority of its sales from the replacement segment of the market. therefore, economic changes that result in a significant or prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the floor covering industry is highly dependent on construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature and currently in a downturn. the current downturn in the u.s. and global economies, along with the housing markets in such economies, has negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the company business. although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities have also lagged during the current downturn. the difficult economic conditions may continue or deteriorate in the foreseeable future. a significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. in periods of rising costs, the company may be unable to pass raw materials, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs could vary significantly with market conditions. although the company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the company ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the company products. there have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. during such periods of time, the company business may be materially adversely affected. the company faces intense competition in the flooring industry, which could decrease demand for the company products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the floor covering industry is highly competitive. the company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. some of the company competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the company does. maintaining the company competitive position may require substantial investments in the company product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. competitive pressures may also result in decreased 10 table of contents index to financial statements demand for the company products or force the company to lower prices. any of these factors or others may impact demand which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. uncertainty in the credit market or downturns in the global economy and the company business could affect the company overall availability and cost of credit. uncertainty in the credit markets could affect the overall availability and cost of credit. despite recent improvement in overall economic conditions, the impact of the economic downturn on the company ability to obtain financing, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness, in the future, and the cost and terms of it, remains uncertain. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for the company products and on its financial condition and operating results. further, these generally negative economic and business conditions may factor into the company periodic credit ratings assessment by either or both moody investors service, inc. and standard &amp; poor ratings services. a rating agency evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include scale and diversification, brand strength, profitability, leverage, liquidity and interest coverage. during 2009, the company senior unsecured notes were downgraded by the rating agencies, which increased the company interest expense by approximately $0.2 million per quarter per $100.0 million of outstanding notes and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. additional downgrades in the company credit ratings could further increase the cost of its existing credit and adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future, and the company can provide no assurances that additional downgrades will not occur. if the company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in the senior credit facility, it may be required to repay borrowings under the senior credit facility prior to their maturity and may lose access to the senior credit facility for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. on july 8, 2011, the company entered into a $900.0 million five-year, senior, secured revolving credit facility (the senior credit facility ). as of december 31, 2011, the amount utilized under the senior credit facility was $395.3 million, resulting in a total of $504.7 million available under the senior credit facility. the amount utilized included $298.0 million of borrowings, $46.8 million of standby letters of credit guaranteeing the company industrial revenue bonds and $50.5 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. on january 20, 2012, the company entered into an amendment to the senior credit facility that provides for an incremental term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $150.0 million. during the term of the senior credit facility, if the company cash flow is worse than expected, the company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. if the company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, it could materially adversely affect the company ability to repay its indebtedness and otherwise have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. additionally, the senior credit facility includes certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the company financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, investments, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the company business. many of these limitations are subject to numerous exceptions. the company is also required to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated net leverage ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0, each as of the last day of any fiscal quarter and as defined in the senior credit facility. 11 table of contents index to financial statements the company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the principal raw materials used in the company manufacturing operations include nylon, polypropylene, triexta and polyester resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the company carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the company ceramic tile business; and wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the company laminate flooring business. in addition, the company sources finished goods as well. for certain of such raw materials and sourced products, the company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. an adverse change in the company relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the company to purchase more expensive alternatives. an extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in the company business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the company operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the company financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the company financial periods. the results of the company foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into u.s. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect as of the balance sheet date and for the statement of operations accounts using, principally, the company average rates during the period. the exchange rates between some of these currencies and the u.s. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. the company may not be able to manage effectively the company currency translation risks and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the company results between financial periods. the company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. the company has typically grown its business through acquisitions. growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the company after the acquisition. the company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the company expects. the combination of an acquired company business with the company existing businesses involves risks. the company cannot be assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of goodwill and intangible asset impairment, other asset impairments, increased interest costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of debt. the company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the company organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. these challenges may result in: maintaining executive offices in different locations; manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; conducting business from various locations; maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees. the diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, level of expenses and operating results. failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the company existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a 12 table of contents index to financial statements material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity, or otherwise perform as expected, may have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. the controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. a failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the company business. as part of the company business strategy, the company intends to continue to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. although the company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the company may not be able successfully to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities, to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the company existing businesses, or to manage profitably acquired businesses or strategic investments. the company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company and its customers and suppliers are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements. the company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with and enforcement of increasingly numerous and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the united states. further, the company operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and finished product. the applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. the company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. for example, enactment of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the u.s. congress or various states, or the adoption of regulations by the environmental protection agency and analogous state or foreign governmental agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which the company conducts business could have an adverse effect on its operations and demand for its products. the company manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. increased regulation of energy use to address the possible emission of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the nature of the company business and operations, including the potential discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. the company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims. the company business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events. many of the company business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. these facilities could be materially damaged by natural 13 table of contents index to financial statements disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. the company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business relating to its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. in the ordinary course of business, the company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to the company. such matters could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition if the company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the company or settlements relating to these matters. although the company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. further, the company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the company, even if the claims were not successful, could adversely affect the company reputation or the reputation and sales of its products. the company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. the company manufacturing facilities in mexico and europe represent a significant portion of the company capacity for ceramic tile and laminate flooring, respectively, and the company european operations represent a significant source of the company revenues and profits. the business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the u.s. in addition, the company increasingly sells products, operates plants and invests in companies in other parts of the world. the company international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; political, legal and economic instability; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; inflation; differing labor laws and changes in those laws; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; and tax inefficiencies and currency exchange controls that may adversely impact its ability to repatriate cash from non-u.s. subsidiaries. 14 table of contents index to financial statements the company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the company operations or upon its financial condition and results of operations. the company inability to protect its intellectual property rights or collect license revenues, particularly with respect to the company patented laminate flooring technology and its registered trademarks, could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the future success and competitive position of certain of the company businesses, particularly the company laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the company ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the company principal product families. the company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the u.s. and countries in europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the company employees, to protect that technology. the company has obtained a number of patents relating to the company products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the uniclic family of patents, which protects unilin interlocking laminate flooring panel technology. the company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the company pending patent applications will be approved. in addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the company filings, could render the company intellectual property less valuable. furthermore, despite the company efforts, the company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the company technology without the company authorization through license agreements, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the company or designing around the company patents. the use of the company technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the company has developed, cause the company to lose sales or otherwise harm the company business. in addition, if the company does not obtain sufficient protection for the company intellectual property, the company competitiveness in the markets it serves could be significantly impaired, which could have a material effect on the company business. the company has obtained and applied for numerous u.s. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. the company cannot guarantee that any of the company pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. a failure to obtain trademark registrations in the u.s. and in other countries could limit the company ability to protect the company trademarks and impede the company marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the company business. the company generates license revenue for certain patents that expire in 2017. the company continues to develop new sources of revenue to offset the expiration in its uniclic family of patents. the failure to develop alternative revenues could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company generally requires third parties with access to the company trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. while such measures are intended to protect the company trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the company confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. in any of these circumstances, the company competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the company growth and future revenue. 15 table of contents index to financial statements companies may claim that the company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the company products. in the past, companies have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the company products infringe their patent rights. there can be no assurance that the company will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that the company products infringe, or may infringe, those parties intellectual property rights. the company cannot be certain that the company products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the u.s. and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the company products or processes. if patents are later issued on these applications, the company may be liable for infringement. furthermore, the company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the company proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. likewise, the company may have similar claims brought against it by competitors. litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the company and divert the efforts of the company technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the company favor. in the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. there can be no assurance that licenses to disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. in the event of a successful claim against the company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the company business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. the long-term performance of the company business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, the company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design and innovation and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. the company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the company competitive position and its operating results. the company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. the company stock is publicly traded. as a result, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. the company efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. declines in the company business conditions may result in an impairment of the company tangible and intangible assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. a significant or prolonged decrease in the company market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its tangible and intangible assets which results when the carrying value of the company assets exceed their fair value. 16 table of contents index to financial statements forward-looking information certain of the statements in this form 10-k, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words could, should, believes, anticipates, expects and estimates or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. for those statements, mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. the following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation in raw material prices and other input costs; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the company products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax, product and other claims; litigation; and other risks identified in mohawk sec reports and public announcements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. financial exposures to these risks are monitored as an integral part of the company risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. from time to time, the company enters into derivative contracts to manage these risks. the company does not regularly engage in speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. the company did not have any derivative contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2011 and 2010. as of december 31, 2011, approximately 78% of the company debt portfolio was comprised of fixed-rate debt and 22% was floating-rate debt. a 1.0 percentage point change in the interest rate of the floating-rate debt would not have a material impact on the company results of operations. 35 table of contents index to financial statements