actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of these risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to uncertainties inherent in the litigation and litigation settlement process. all forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and the corporation undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. in this form 10-k, references to our, we, us, the company, the company, the corporation and similar terms for periods prior to july 1, 2007, refer to the bank of new york company, inc., and references to our, we, us, the company, the corporation and similar terms for periods on or after july 1, 2007, refer to bny mellon. table of contents the bank of new york mellon corporation form 10-k index part i item 1. business 3 item 1a. risk factors 13 risk factors making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. the following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. however, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this or other of our reports filed or furnished with the sec, also could adversely affect our business or results. we cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document are a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. these risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this report. see forward-looking statements. business combination risks we may not realize the expected financial benefits from the merger between the bank of new york co. and mellon. we conduct the combined businesses previously conducted by the bank of new york co. and mellon. these businesses were combined in a merger which was consummated on july 1, 2007. achieving the expected benefits of the combination of these businesses will require us to retain clients of both of the predecessor businesses, retain key employees of both of the predecessor businesses and capitalize upon certain revenue synergies. failure to accomplish these goals could adversely affect our business. in addition, the success of the combination of these businesses will depend in part the bank of new york mellon 13 table of contents part i (continued) on our ability to realize certain cost savings. if we are not able to do so, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. it is possible that the processes of integration of the predecessor businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of the predecessor businesses or inconsistencies in technologies, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the business combination and could reduce our earnings. the integration of the predecessor businesses will require a significant commitment of time and resources by our management and other personnel, which could divert the attention of management from other tasks. we may not realize the expected financial benefits from the acquisition of the corporate trust business of jp morgan chase &amp; co. ( the acquired corporate trust business ). we purchased the acquired corporate trust business on october 1, 2006. achieving the expected benefits of this acquisition will require us to retain a substantial portion of the acquired corporate trust business client base, increase the revenue growth rate of the acquired corporate trust business, retain key employees of the acquired corporate trust business and realize certain anticipated cost savings. if we are unable to integrate the acquired corporate trust business successfully, then we may fail to realize the anticipated synergies and growth opportunities or achieve the cost savings and revenue growth we expect from the acquisition. other acquisitions also pose integration risks. from time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. each of these poses integration challenges similar to those described above. we cannot assure you that we will realize, when anticipated or at all, the positive benefits expected as a result of our acquisitions or that any businesses acquired will be successfully integrated. risks related to our business global trends our business could be adversely affected if current global trends do not continue or if global business and economic conditions weaken. our businesses benefit from certain global trends, such as the growth of financial assets, creation of new securities, financial services industry consolidation, rapid technological change, globalization of investment activities, structural changes to financial markets including consolidation, shortened settlement cycles, straight-through processing requirements, and increased demand for outsourcing. we believe that these long-term trends all tend to increase the demand for our products and services around the world. if these trends do not continue, we may lose customers or lose revenue associated with products that may no longer be in demand which may adversely affect our revenue growth. we expect that our businesses will benefit from worldwide pension reform that creates additional pools of assets that use custody and related services and investment management services. if the pace of pension reform and resulting programs, including growth of public and private pension plans, slows down or if substantial pension reform does not occur, particularly in markets in which we are active, then our revenue growth may be adversely affected. in addition, unexpected sustained weakness in business and economic conditions in any or all of the domestic or international financial markets in which we conduct our business could have one or more of the following effects: negative trends in savings rates or in individuals investment preferences causing customers to become risk adverse could result in decreased demand for investment products or services that we offer; slowed or halted inflows to pension plans could decrease demand for custody and related services and investment management services; lower credit quality of our clients could result in increased credit costs and higher provision for credit losses; credit deterioration in investment securities held by us, rating agency downgrades for such securities or other market factors could result in us having to recognize a non-temporary 14 the bank of new york mellon table of contents part i (continued) impairment in the value of such investment securities, with a corresponding charge against earnings; and disruptions in the fixed-income markets could result in a loss of liquidity for an asset-backed commercial paper conduit with which we have a liquidity facility, which could result in such facility being drawn upon. competition we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many businesses in which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. other domestic and international banks and financial service companies such as trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, specialized processing companies, outsourcing companies, data processing companies and asset managers aggressively compete with us for fee-based business. we also face competition from both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations such as mutual funds, insurance companies, credit unions, money market funds and investment counseling firms, whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. in addition, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, brokerage houses and other business firms and individuals offer active competition for personal trust services and investment counseling services. pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services which would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. our internal strategies and forecasts assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. a decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline of the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. a decline in the rate at which our clients outsource functions, such as their internal accounting activities, would also adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to successfully compete for business depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies. rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices. we cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability. dependence on fee-based business we are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, significant declines in market values or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences. our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, as distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from traditional interest-generating products and services. we have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, including cash management, custody, mutual fund services, unit investment trusts, corporate trust, depositary receipts, stock transfer, securities execution and clearance, collateral management, and asset management. fees for many of our products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. corporate actions, cross-border investing, global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues. asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. this is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. significant declines in the values of capital assets would reduce the bank of new york mellon 15 table of contents part i (continued) the market value of some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. if there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected. our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity. the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. most of our foreign exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more volatility. accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. decreased cross-border investing could lead to decreased demand for investor services that we provide. the trend towards use of electronic trade networks instead of traditional modes of exchange may result in unfavorable pressure on our foreign exchange business which could adversely impact our foreign exchange revenue. our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform. we provide custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, stock transfer, cash management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. if we fail to perform these services in a manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. in addition, any such failure may result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. interest rate environment our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates. our net interest income and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes, changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets and changes in customer credit quality, over which we have no control. our net interest income is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. we also earn net interest income on interest-free funds we hold. as a result of changes in interest rates, we may experience one or more of the following effects: changes in net interest income depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. see discussion under asset/liability management elsewhere in this report; reduced credit demand due to sustained higher interest rates; an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in interest rates, including with respect to financial guaranty monoline insurers as to which we have credit exposure; increased borrowing costs and reduced access to the capital markets caused by unfavorable financial conditions; 16 the bank of new york mellon table of contents part i (continued) sustained lower interest rates, which may reduce the spread we earn on deposits; a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates; and decreased fee-based revenues due to a slowing of capital market activity or significant declines in market value. a more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the risk management section of the annual report. capital adequacy we are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, bny mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. from time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. if bny mellon, its subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, their respective financial conditions would be materially and adversely affected. the regulatory accords on international banking institutions to be reached by the basel committee on banking supervision and implemented by the federal reserve may require us and our subsidiary banks to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. we cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, the regulatory accords or implementing regulations. failure by our principal subsidiary banks and broker-dealer subsidiaries to maintain their status as well capitalized and well managed, if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status as a financial holding company and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. financial holding companies are permitted to engage in a wide range of financial activities, insurance, merchant banking and real estate investment that are not permissible for other bank holding companies and are also eligible for a streamlined review process for proposed acquisitions. see supervision and regulation above and capital capital framework and capital capital adequacy in the annual report, which portions of the annual report are incorporated herein by reference. access to capital markets if our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our business may be adversely affected. our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital markets on a regular basis. we rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated operations. events or circumstances, such as rising interest rates, market disruptions or an adverse change in our credit ratings, or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision by non-u.s. jurisdictions. we operate in a highly regulated environment, being subject to a comprehensive statutory regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. see supervision and regulation above. some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the united states. such jurisdictions may utilize legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the united states. among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be the bank of new york mellon 17 table of contents part i (continued) decided much more quickly than in the u.s., trials may not involve testimony of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. these factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess. monetary and other governmental policies our business is influenced by monetary and other governmental policies. the monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the federal reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. the cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results in additional costs. see supervision and regulation above. operational risk we are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services. operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the corporation or business interruption due to system failures or other events. we regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively impact our results of operations. operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. see risk management in the annual report, which portion of the annual report is incorporated herein by reference. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see risk management in the annual report, which portion of the annual report is incorporated herein by reference. 18 the bank of new york mellon table of contents part i (continued) technology we depend on technology and our intellectual property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected. we are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. in addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers. developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market at a competitive price. we use trademark, trade secret, copyright and other proprietary rights and procedures to protect our intellectual property and technology resources. despite our efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our proprietary rights are sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states. in addition, we cannot be sure that courts will adequately enforce contractual arrangements we have entered into to protect our proprietary technologies. if any of our proprietary information were misappropriated by or otherwise disclosed to our competitors, our competitive position could be adversely affected. we may incur substantial costs to defend ownership of our intellectual property or to replace misappropriated proprietary technology. if a third party were to assert a claim of infringement of our proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party. acts of terrorism acts of terrorism may have a negative impact on our business. acts of terrorism could have a significant impact on our business and operations. while we have in place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism could still damage our facilities and disrupt or delay normal operations, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, and counterparties. acts of terrorism and global conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent they resulted in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the united states or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. the war in iraq, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further adversely affect economic growth, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are necessarily unable to predict. reputational and legal risk our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally. adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, actions of errant employees, financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well known companies, increasing regulatory scrutiny of know your customer, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund industry, including mutual funds advised by us, and litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure of us to comply with compliance policies and procedures, could result in increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets, result in suits, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or have adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. investigations by various federal and state regulatory agencies, the department of justice and state attorneys general, the bank of new york mellon 19 table of contents part i (continued) and any related litigation, could have an adverse effect on investment activity generally and on us. such investigations also may be initiated by, and other compliance requirements may be asserted by, jurisdictions outside the united states, utilizing legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the united states. see item 3 of this form 10-k. on nov. 7, 2005, one of our principal banking subsidiaries, the bank of new york, entered into a non-prosecution agreement with the united states attorney offices for the eastern and southern districts of new york, which imposed a number of remedial steps and programs in connection with the bank of new york anti-money laundering program. the agreement outlines a series of steps to strengthen and enhance the bank of new york compliance practices, systems, controls and procedures and remains in effect for three years unless earlier terminated by the u.s. attorney offices. failure to comply with the agreement could result in criminal prosecution for participation in alleged fraudulent activities and money laundering activities in 2002 and previously (in the case of the alleged fraudulent activities) and 1999 and previously (in the case of the alleged money laundering activities). such prosecution could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. on april 21, 2006, the bank of new york entered into a formal written agreement with the federal reserve bank of new york and the new york state banking department, which imposed a number of reporting requirements and controls in connection with the bank of new york anti-money laundering program. the agreement outlines a series of steps to strengthen and enhance the bank of new york compliance practices, systems, controls and procedures and remains in effect until terminated by the banking regulators. failure to comply with the agreement could result in sanctions, money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. on aug. 17, 2006, one of our principal banking subsidiaries, mellon bank, n.a. ( mellon bank ), entered into a settlement agreement with the united states attorney for the western district of pennsylvania relating to an april 2001 incident in mellon bank pittsburgh irs processing unit. under the terms of the settlement, mellon bank agreed to have an independent third party monitor compliance with the terms of the agreement for a three-year period. no monetary penalties or fines were imposed by the agreement although mellon bank reimbursed the federal government for $30 thousand of costs incurred by an outside vendor. if mellon bank complies with the terms of the agreement, the u.s. attorney will not prosecute mellon bank. the agreement should not impair mellon bank ability to serve as a long-standing government contractor. our subsidiaries are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. from time to time, customers of our subsidiaries may make claims and take legal action pertaining to performance of fiduciary responsibilities. whether customer claims and legal action related to the subsidiary performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the subsidiary they may result in material financial liability and materially impair the market perception of us and our products. in addition, in the performance of fiduciary duties or other contractual responsibilities, our subsidiaries may be required to withhold applicable taxes on income distributions to foreign and domestic persons. in the event such withholding was to be determined to have not been conducted in a manner supported by appropriate documentation, we could be subject to liability. new lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. from time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. in developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. 20 the bank of new york mellon table of contents part i (continued) we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. tax laws and regulations tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition. the u.s. treasury department and internal revenue service ( irs ) have taken increasingly aggressive positions against certain corporate investment programs that either reduce or defer taxes. the irs has challenged certain types of structured transactions including leasing investments referred to as lilos, in which we engaged prior to mid-1999, and silos, in which we engaged prior to 2004. see note 24 of notes to the consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which note is incorporated herein by reference. we have also entered into investments that produce synthetic fuel from coal by-products. section 29 of the internal revenue code provides a tax credit for these types of transactions. the amount of the credit is dependent on the amount of synthetic fuel produced by these investments. the tax credits available under section 29 of the internal revenue code for the production and sale of synthetic fuel produced in any given year are phased out if the reference price of a barrel of oil for that year rises above a specified, inflation-adjusted price range. to manage the exposure to oil prices in 2007, we entered into an oil-related option contract in january 2007. the synthetic fuel credit program terminated at the end of 2007. see the income taxes section in the annual report, which section is incorporated herein by reference. we believe we have adequate tax reserves to cover the potential tax exposures the irs is likely to assess. probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will negatively affect us or our business. going forward, we anticipate we will have fewer opportunities to participate in lease investing, tax credit programs and similar transactions that have benefited us in the past. this may adversely impact our net interest income and effective tax rate. in addition, changes in tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income. accounting principles changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board, the sec, and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. these changes are very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data, although, in certain instances, these changes may not have an economic impact on our business. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. credit reserves we could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate. we have credit exposure to the airline, automotive, and telecommunications industries, to monoline financial guaranty insurers, and to many other industries. we cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. we rely on our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. we cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. if reserves for the bank of new york mellon 21 table of contents part i (continued) credit losses, including loan reserves, are not sufficient, we would be required to record a larger loan reserve against current earnings. holding company we are a holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders. we are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our principal bank subsidiaries - the bank of new york and mellon bank, n.a. - and our other subsidiaries. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our bank and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. there are various legal limitations on the extent to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates. although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or other of our subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. see supervision and regulation above and liquidity and dividends and capital capital framework in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors (including, in the case of the banking subsidiaries, their depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. the rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. a holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in asset/liability management , risk management trading activities and risk management , off-balance sheet arrangements , note 1 of notes to consolidated financial statements under derivative financial instruments and note 24 and note 25 of notes to consolidated financial statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of these risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to uncertainties inherent in the litigation and litigation settlement process. all forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. in this form 10-k, references to our, we, us, the company, and similar terms for periods on or after july 1, 2007, refer to the bank of new york mellon corporation and prior to july 1, 2007, refer to the bank of new york company, inc. table of contents the bank of new york mellon corporation form 10-k index part i item 1. business 3 item 1a. risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the following portions of the annual report: trading activities and risk management , asset/liability management , off-balance sheet arrangements , note 1 of notes to consolidated financial statements under derivative financial instruments and note 27 of notes to consolidated financial statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of these risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to uncertainties inherent in the litigation and litigation settlement process. all forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and bny mellon undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. in this form 10-k, references to our, we, us, and similar terms for periods on or after july 1, 2007, refer to bny mellon and prior to july 1, 2007, refer to the bank of new york company, inc. table of contents the bank of new york mellon corporation form 10-k index part i item 1. business 3 item 1a. risk factors 17 risk factors making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. the following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. however, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the sec, also could adversely affect our business or results. we cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document are a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. these risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this annual report on form 10-k. see forward-looking statements. current uncertainties in the global financial markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic and global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and elsewhere around the world. while there are indications that both the financial markets and the economy have recovered somewhat from the recent world-wide recession, there appear to remain depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, volatile equity market values, high unemployment, declining business and consumer confidence and the risk of increased inflation. these factors continue to have a significant effect on both the global economy and our business. the resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business and our financial condition and results of operations. a worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. in particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: the amount and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our asset and wealth management segments. fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or bny mellon 17 table of contents part i (continued) from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset management segment. our ability to continue to operate certain commingled investment funds at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit and to allow unrestricted cash redemptions by investors in those commingled funds (or by investors in other funds managed by us which are invested in those commingled investment funds) may be adversely affected by depressed mark-to-market prices of the underlying portfolio securities held by such funds, or by material defaults on such securities or by the limited sources of liquidity that are available to such funds; and we may be faced with claims from investors and exposed to financial loss as a result of our operation of such funds. we expect to face increased regulation of our industry. compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. the process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure and to ascertain the fair value of securities held by us is subject to uncertainty in that it requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and others to meet their obligations. our ability to access the public capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. fdic premiums have become considerably higher recently because market developments have significantly depleted the dif and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. premiums may continue to increase until the value of the fund has returned to levels the fdic determines appropriate. the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities and pension and other post-retirement plan assets, may decrease. levels of market volatility have been unprecedented. the capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years. while markets have stabilized in recent months, further upheaval could produce downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under less volatile market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to continue, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. see the risk management section of the annual report, which is incorporated herein by reference. if markets experience further upheavals, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may experience further write-downs of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions ; impairment of our instruments could harm our earnings. we maintain an investment securities portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. our portfolio consists of non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and credit cards, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. if such investments suffer credit losses, as we experienced with some of our investments in fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the credit losses as an other-than-temporary impairment. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled market risk in our annual report, which section is incorporated herein by reference. competition we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. 18 bny mellon table of contents part i (continued) many businesses in which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. other domestic and international banks and financial service companies such as trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, specialized processing companies, outsourcing companies, data processing companies and asset managers aggressively compete with us for fee-based business. we also face competition from both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations such as mutual funds, insurance companies, credit unions, money market funds and investment counseling firms, whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. in addition, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, brokerage houses and other business firms and individuals offer active competition for personal trust services and investment counseling services. regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose additional taxes on certain financial institutions. these or other similar proposals, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively. dependence on fee-based business we are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, significant declines in market values or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences. our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, as distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from traditional interest-generating products and services. we have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, including cash management, custody, mutual fund services, unit investment trusts, corporate trust, depositary receipts, stock transfer, securities execution and clearance, collateral management, and asset management. fees for many of our products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. corporate actions, cross-border investing, global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues. asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. this is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. significant declines in the values of capital assets would reduce the market value of some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services which would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. if there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected. our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity. the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. most of our foreign exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more volatility. accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. bny mellon 19 table of contents part i (continued) our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. decreased cross-border investing could lead to decreased demand for investor services that we provide. the trend towards use of electronic trade networks instead of traditional modes of exchange may result in unfavorable pressure on our foreign exchange business which could adversely impact our foreign exchange revenue. our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform. we provide custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, stock transfer, cash management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. if we fail to perform these services in a manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. in addition, any such failure may result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our internal strategies and forecasts assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. a decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline of the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. a decline in the rate at which our clients outsource functions, such as their internal accounts payable activities, would also adversely affect our results of operations. strategic acquisitions may pose integration risks. from time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. each of these poses integration challenges, including successfully retaining clients and key employees of both businesses and capitalizing on certain revenue synergies. we cannot assure you that we will realize, when anticipated or at all, the positive benefits expected as a result of our acquisitions or that any businesses acquired will be successfully integrated. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparties or clients. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. any material reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. in addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength 20 bny mellon table of contents part i (continued) of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. changes to the models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us. in view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, we believe that the rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, may increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. the outcome of such a review may have adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us. interest rate environment our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates. our net interest revenue and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes and changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets over which we have no control. our net interest revenue is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. we also earn net interest revenue on interest-free funds we hold. the global market crisis has triggered a series of cuts in interest rates. during fiscal 2009, the federal open market committee kept the target federal funds rate between 0% and 0.25%. the low interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues. it has also resulted in our voluntarily waiving fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees in order to prevent our clients yields on such funds from becoming negative. changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. conversely, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. further volatility in interest rates could trigger one or more of the following additional effects: changes in net interest revenue depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. see discussion under asset/liability management in the annual report, which portion of the annual report is incorporated herein by reference; an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in interest rates, including with respect to financial guaranty monoline insurers as to which we have credit exposure; a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates; increased borrowing costs and reduced access to the capital markets caused by unfavorable financial conditions; and decreased fee-based revenues due to a slowing of capital market activity or significant declines in market value. a more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the risk management section of the annual report, which is incorporated herein by reference. capital adequacy we are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, bny mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. from time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. if our company, our subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, their respective financial conditions would be materially and adversely affected. in light of recent market events, proposed regulations, including president obama recent proposal to limit the market share of liabilities bny mellon 21 table of contents part i (continued) at large financial firms, and proposed changes in regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the basel committee on banking supervision and implemented by the federal reserve board, bny mellon and our subsidiary banks may be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. we cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations. failure by our largest subsidiary to maintain its status as well-capitalized and well managed, if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status as a fhc and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. see supervision and regulation above and liquidity and dividends , capital capital framework and capital adequacy in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. access to capital markets if our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our business may be adversely affected. our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital markets on a regular basis. we rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated operations. events or circumstances, such as rising interest rates, market disruptions or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we operate in a highly regulated environment, being subject to a comprehensive statutory regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. in light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, the obama administration, congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. see supervision and regulation above. some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the united states. such jurisdictions may utilize legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the united states. among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be decided much more quickly than in the u.s., trials may not involve testimony of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. these factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess. recent legislative and regulatory initiatives may significantly impact our financial condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue business opportunities. the recent economic and political environment has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives, both enacted and proposed, that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry and may significantly impact us. for example, the obama administration, congress and our 22 bny mellon table of contents part i (continued) regulators are currently considering a variety of proposals that would make far reaching changes to the financial regulatory system and significantly affect the financial services industry, including: the volcker rule, which would prohibit banks and financial institutions from owning, investing or sponsoring a hedge fund or private equity fund, or engaging in proprietary trading operations for their own profit unrelated to serving customers; increased capital requirements for banks and other financial institutions (and even higher capital requirements for systemically important financial firms, such as bny mellon) and the imposition of formulaic liquidity requirements, as proposed by the basel committee and discussed above under supervision and regulation ; limitations on the size of large banking institutions, including allowing regulators to dismantle large or systemically important banks and financial institutions, even healthy ones, if they are considered a grave risk to the economy; limits on the growth of market share of liabilities; a financial crisis responsibility fee proposed by the obama administration on covered liabilities of the largest u.s. financial institutions, including bny mellon, that would be assessed for at least the next ten years; heightened standards for and increased scrutiny of the compensation practices of financial institutions; a new financial services oversight council chaired by the u.s. treasury secretary; a consumer financial protection agency; potential limits on the scope of federal preemption of state laws as applied to national banks; greater powers to regulate risk across the financial system; new requirements for the securitizations market, changes in the regulatory agencies and rules to more closely regulate credit default swaps and other derivative transactions. the proposals generally call for increased scrutiny and regulation for financial firms whose combination of size, leverage, and interconnectedness could pose a threat to financial stability if they were to fail. additionally, substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the u.s., are possible in the years ahead. these legislative and regulatory initiatives could require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, limit the products that we offer, result in a loss of revenue, limit our competitiveness or our ability to pursue business opportunities, cause business disruptions, impact the value of assets that we hold or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. the long-term impact of these initiatives on our business practices and revenues will depend upon the successful implementation of our strategies and competitors responses to such initiatives, all of which are difficult to predict. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see supervision and regulation above. monetary and other governmental policies our business is influenced by monetary and other governmental policies. the monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the federal reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. due to current market conditions, we anticipate that monetary, tax and other government policies will become more rigorous. heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. the cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results in additional costs. various legislative initiatives are from time to time introduced in congress or relevant state legislatures. we cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have upon our financial condition or operations. see supervision and regulation above. operational risk we are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services. operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the company, business interruption due to system failures or other events, or other risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events, including legal risk. we regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the bny mellon 23 table of contents part i (continued) occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively impact our results of operations. operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. see risk management in the annual report, which portion is incorporated herein by reference. reputational and legal risk our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally. adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the recent events in the financial markets, our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, actions of errant employees, financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well known companies, increasing regulatory scrutiny of know your customer, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund industry, including mutual funds advised by us, and litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure of us to comply with compliance policies and procedures, could result in increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets, result in suits, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or have adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. investigations by various federal and state regulatory agencies, the department of justice and state attorneys general, and any related litigation, could have an adverse effect on investment activity generally and on us. such investigations also may be initiated by, and other compliance requirements may be asserted by, jurisdictions outside the united states, utilizing legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the united states. see item 3 of this form 10-k. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see risk management in the annual report, which portion of the annual report is incorporated herein by reference. technology we depend on our technology and intellectual property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected. we are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. in addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers. 24 bny mellon table of contents part i (continued) developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market in a timely manner at a competitive price. rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments. we cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability. we use trademark, trade secret, copyright and other proprietary rights and procedures to protect our intellectual property and technology resources. despite our efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our proprietary rights are sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states. in addition, we cannot be sure that courts will adequately enforce contractual arrangements we have entered into to protect our proprietary technologies. if any of our proprietary information were misappropriated by or otherwise disclosed to our competitors, our competitive position could be adversely affected. we may incur substantial costs to defend ownership of our intellectual property or to replace misappropriated proprietary technology. if a third party were to assert a claim of infringement of our proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party. acts of terrorism acts of terrorism may have a negative impact on our business. acts of terrorism could have a significant impact on our business and operations. while we have in place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism could still damage our facilities and disrupt or delay normal operations, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, and counterparties. acts of terrorism and global conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent they resulted in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the united states or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. the wars in iraq and afghanistan, the recent terror attacks in pune and mumbai, india, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further adversely affect economic growth, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are necessarily unable to predict. our subsidiaries are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. from time to time, customers of our subsidiaries may make claims and take legal action pertaining to performance of fiduciary responsibilities. whether customer claims and legal action related to the subsidiary performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the subsidiary they may result in material financial liability and materially impair the market perception of us and our products and services. in addition, in the performance of fiduciary duties or other contractual responsibilities, our subsidiaries may be required to withhold applicable taxes on income distributions to foreign and domestic persons. in the event such withholding were to be determined to have not been conducted in a manner supported by appropriate documentation, we could be subject to liability. new lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. from time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. in developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services bny mellon 25 table of contents part i (continued) may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of large financial institutions. competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. tax laws and regulations tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition. in the course of our business, we receive inquiries from both u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities on the amount of taxes we owe, such as those matters discussed in note 26 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which is incorporated herein by reference. if we are not successful in defending these inquiries, we may be required to adjust the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, all of which can require a greater provision for taxes or otherwise negatively affect earnings. probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will negatively affect us or our business. in addition, changes in tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income. accounting principles changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board, the sec, and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. these changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data, although, in certain instances, these changes may not have an economic impact on our business. for example, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) recently issued sfas no. 167, amendments to fasb interpretation no. 46 (r), effective january, 2010. sfas no. 167 requires certain of our variable interest entities to be consolidated, which will increase our balance sheet and subject us to additional capital requirements. see recent accounting and regulatory developments in the annual report, which portion is incorporated herein by reference. further revisions to sfas no. 167 may have an additional impact on us, which cannot be predicted at this time. credit reserves we could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate. we have credit exposure to residential mortgages, the airline, automotive, and telecommunications industries, monoline financial guaranty insurers and many other industries. we cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. we rely on our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. in addition, current market developments may increase default and delinquency rates, which may impact our charge-offs. we cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. if reserves for credit losses are not sufficient, we would be required to record a larger credit loss reserve against current earnings. holding company we are a holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders. we are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our 26 bny mellon table of contents part i (continued) principal bank subsidiaries the bank of new york mellon and bny mellon, n.a. and our other subsidiaries. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banks and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends and interest from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. there are various legal limitations on the extent to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates. for example, as a result of charges related to the restructuring of our securities portfolio in the third quarter of 2009, the bank of new york mellon and bny mellon, n.a. will require regulatory consent prior to paying a dividend to us. although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or other of our subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. see supervision and regulation above and liquidity and dividends in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors (including, in the case of our banking subsidiaries, their depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. the rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. a holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities. limits on common stock dividends. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. as a result of charges relating to the restructuring of the securities portfolio, any increase in bny mellon ongoing quarterly dividend would require consultation with the federal reserve. any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. provisions of delaware law and provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue additional series of preferred stock and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the following portions of the annual report: off-balance sheet arrangements , risk management , trading activities and risk management and asset/liability management , note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements under derivative financial instruments, note 26, and note 27 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 16 risk factors making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. the following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. however, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this form 10-k or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the sec, also could adversely affect our business or results. we cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document address all potential risks that we may face. these risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this form 10-k. see forward-looking statements. uncertainties in global financial markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic and global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and elsewhere around the world. while there are indications that both the financial markets and the economy are recovering from the recent worldwide recession, a variety of factors raise concern over the course and strength of the recovery, including low interest rates, depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, volatile equity market values, high unemployment, governmental budget deficits (including, in the u.s., at the federal, state and municipal level), contagion risk from possible default by other countries on sovereign debt, declining business and consumer confidence and the risk of increased inflation. these factors continue to have a significant effect on both the global economy and our business. the resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business and our financial condition and results of operations. a worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. in particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: the amount and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our asset and wealth management businesses. fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset management business. our ability to continue to operate certain commingled investment funds at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit and to allow unrestricted cash redemptions by investors in those commingled funds (or by investors in other funds managed by us which are invested in those commingled investment funds) may be adversely affected by depressed mark-to-market prices of the underlying portfolio securities held by such funds, or by material defaults on such securities or by the limited sources of liquidity that are available to such funds; and we may be faced with claims from investors and exposed to financial loss as a result of our operation of such funds. heightened regulation of our industry will increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities that we would otherwise pursue. the process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure and to ascertain the fair value of securities held by us is subject to uncertainty in that it requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and others to meet their obligations. our ability to access the public capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. 16 bny mellon table of contents the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities and pension and other post-retirement plan assets, may decrease. concerns over market volatility continue. the capital and credit markets experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption during the financial crisis. while markets stabilized in 2010, further upheaval could produce downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under less volatile market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to continue, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. for a discussion of risk, see risk management in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report. if markets experience further upheavals, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. reputational, legal and regulatory risk our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally. we are subject to reputational, legal and regulatory risk in the ordinary course of our business. these risks could include adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from events in the financial markets, our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, the purported actions of our employees, alleged financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well-known companies, increasing regulatory scrutiny of know your customer , anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures and their effectiveness, and litigation that may arise from our failure or perceived failure to comply with policies and procedures. any or all of these risks could result in increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets, result in lawsuits, enforcement actions, damages, fines and penalties or have other adverse effects on us. customers of our subsidiaries may make claims pertaining to the performance of fiduciary responsibilities, which may result in material financial liability and materially impair our reputation, if not resolved in a manner favorable to the subsidiary. investigations by various federal and state regulatory agencies, the department of justice and state attorneys general, and any related litigation, could have an adverse effect on us. see legal proceedings in note 25 of the consolidated financial statements in the annual report. we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we operate in a highly regulated environment, and are subject to a comprehensive statutory regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. in light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, the obama administration, congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance, including under basel iii and the dodd-frank act, may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. the regulatory perspective, particularly that of the federal reserve board, on regulatory capital requirements may affect our ability to make acquisitions, declare dividends or repurchase our common stock unless we can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of our regulators, that such actions would not adversely affect our regulatory capital position in the event of a severely stressed market environment. in addition, the implementation of certain of the regulations with regard to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect our regulatory capital position relative to that of our competitors. failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and bny mellon 17 table of contents interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. see supervision and regulation in this form 10-k. some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the united states. such jurisdictions may utilize legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the united states. among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be decided much more quickly than in the u.s., trials may not involve testimony of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. these factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess. we may experience further write-downs of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions ; impairment of our instruments could harm our earnings. we maintain an investment securities portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. our portfolio includes non-agency u.s. and non-u.s. residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and credit cards, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. if such investments suffer credit losses, as we experienced with some of our investments in 2009, we may recognize in earnings the credit losses as an other-than-temporary impairment. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the risk management market risk section in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report. recent legislative actions may have an adverse effect on the company operations. in july 2010, president obama signed into law the dodd-frank act. this new law broadly affects the financial services industry, particularly those entities considered to be systemically important , such as bank holding companies with assets of over $50 billion, including bny mellon, by establishing a framework for systemic risk oversight, creating a liquidation authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. u.s. regulatory agencies banking, securities and commodities have begun to publish notices of proposed regulations required by dodd-frank during the past several months, and new bodies created by dodd-frank (including the fsoc and the bureau of consumer financial protection) are commencing operations. the related findings of various regulatory and commission studies, the interpretations issued as part of the rulemaking process and the final regulations that are issued with respect to various elements of the new law may cause changes that impact the profitability of our business activities and require that we change certain of our business practices and plans, including those relating to cross-selling our products and services. these changes could also expose us to additional costs (including increased legal and compliance costs) and require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes. interest rate environment our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates. our net interest revenue and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes and changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets over which we have no control. our net interest revenue is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. we also earn net interest revenue on interest-free funds we hold. the global market crisis has triggered a series of cuts in interest rates. during fiscal 2010, the federal open market committee kept the target federal funds rate between 0% and 0.25%. the low interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues. it has also resulted in our voluntarily waiving fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees in order to prevent our clients yields on such funds from becoming negative. changes in interest 18 bny mellon table of contents rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. conversely, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. further volatility in interest rates could trigger one or more of the following additional effects: changes in net interest revenue depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. see discussion under asset/liability management in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report; an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in interest rates, including with respect to financial guaranty monoline insurers as to which we have credit exposure; a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates; increased borrowing costs and reduced access to the capital markets caused by unfavorable financial conditions; and decreased fee-based revenues due to a slowing of capital market activity or significant declines in market value. a more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the risk management section in the md&amp;a results of operations in the annual report. deposit insurance premiums may continue to increase. during 2009 and 2010, due to a higher level of bank failures, the fdic increased recurring deposit insurance premiums, imposed a special assessment on insured financial institutions, and required insured financial institutions to prepay three years of deposit premiums. due to the continuing volume of bank failures, it is possible that a continued high level of funding will be required from insured financial institutions, such as bny mellon. competition we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many businesses in which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. other domestic and international banks and financial service companies such as trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, specialized processing companies, outsourcing companies, data processing companies and asset managers aggressively compete with us for fee-based business. we also face competition from both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations such as mutual funds, insurance companies, credit unions, money market funds and investment counseling firms, whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. in addition, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, brokerage houses and other business firms and individuals offer active competition for personal trust services and investment counseling services. furthermore, pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services which would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. recently enacted and proposed legislation and regulation may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all, including legislation relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar proposals, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively. a decline in our competitive position could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. dependence on fee-based business we are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, significant declines in market values or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences. our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, as distinct from commercial banking bny mellon 19 table of contents institutions that earn most of their revenues from loans and other traditional interest-generating products and services. we have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, including cash management, custody, mutual fund services, unit investment trusts, corporate trust, depositary receipts, stock transfer, securities execution and clearance, collateral management, and asset management. fees for many of our products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. corporate actions, cross-border investing, global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues. asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. this is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. significant declines in the values of capital assets would reduce the market value of some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. if there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected. our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity. the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. most of our foreign exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more volatility. accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. decreased cross-border investing could lead to decreased demand for investor services that we provide. the trend towards use of electronic trade networks instead of traditional modes of exchange may result in unfavorable pressure on our foreign exchange business which could adversely impact our foreign exchange revenue. our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform. we provide custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, stock transfer, cash management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. if we fail to perform these services in a manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. in addition, any such failure may result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our internal strategies and forecasts assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. a decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline of the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. a decline in the rate at which our clients 20 bny mellon table of contents outsource functions, such as their internal accounts payable activities, would also adversely affect our results of operations. strategic acquisitions may pose integration risks. from time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. each of these poses integration challenges, including successfully retaining clients and key employees of both businesses and capitalizing on certain revenue synergies. we cannot assure you that we will realize, when anticipated or at all, the positive benefits expected as a result of our acquisitions or that any businesses acquired will be successfully integrated. the soundness of financial institutions and other counterparties could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions in the future. many transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparties or clients. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. any material reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. in addition, rating agencies employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. changes to the models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us. in view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, we believe that the rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, may increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. the outcome of such a review may have adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us. capital adequacy we are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, bny mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. as discussed under supervision and regulation capital requirements in this form 10-k, the capital requirements applicable to us as a bank holding company as well as to our subsidiary banks are in the process of being substantially revised, in connection with basel iii and the requirements of the dodd-frank act. if our company, our subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, their respective financial conditions would be materially and adversely affected. in light of recent market events, dodd-frank and basel iii, bny mellon and bny mellon 21 table of contents our subsidiary banks will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. we cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations. failure by bny mellon or one of our u.s. bank subsidiaries to maintain its status as well-capitalized and well managed , if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status as a fhc and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. see supervision and regulation in this form 10-k and the liquidity and dividends and capital capital adequacy sections in the md&amp;a results of operations section and the recent accounting and regulatory developments section in the md&amp;a section in the annual report. access to capital markets if our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our business may be adversely affected. our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital markets on a regular basis. we rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated operations. events or circumstances, such as rising interest rates, market disruptions or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. monetary and other governmental policies our business is influenced by monetary and other governmental policies. the monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the federal reserve board, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. due to current market conditions, we anticipate that monetary, tax and other government policies will become more rigorous. heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. the cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results in additional costs. various legislative initiatives are from time to time introduced in congress or relevant state legislatures. we cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have upon our financial condition or operations. see supervision and regulation in this form 10-k. operational risk we are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services. operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the company, business interruption due to system failures or other events, or other risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events, including legal risk. we regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively 22 bny mellon table of contents impact our results of operations. operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. for a discussion of risk see risk management in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for a discussion of risk, see risk management in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report. technology we depend on our technology and intellectual property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected. we are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. in addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers. developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market in a timely manner at a competitive price. rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments. we cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability. furthermore, if a third party were to assert a claim of infringement or misappropriation of its proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party. bny mellon 23 table of contents global operations we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating globally. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of loss from the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism and various unfavorable political, economic, legal or other developments, including social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and changes in laws and regulations. further, our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets. various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions may adversely affect our business and increase volatility in global financial markets generally. acts of terrorism acts of terrorism and global conflicts may have a negative impact on our business. acts of terrorism and global conflicts could have a significant impact on our business and operations. while we have in place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism could still damage our facilities and disrupt or delay normal operations, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, and counterparties. acts of terrorism and global conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent they resulted in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the united states or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. the wars in iraq and afghanistan, terror attacks, political unrest, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further adversely affect economic growth, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are unable to predict. new lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. from time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. in developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of large financial institutions. competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. our ability to attract and retain key executives and/or other key employees may be hindered as a result of executive compensation limits and requirements set forth in regulations that may be issued under recently proposed and enacted legislation. tax laws and regulations tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition. in the course of our business, we receive inquiries from both u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities on the amount of taxes we owe, such as those matters discussed in note 25 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. if we are not successful in defending these inquiries, we may be required to adjust the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, all of which can require a greater provision for taxes or otherwise negatively affect earnings. probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will 24 bny mellon table of contents negatively affect us or our business. in addition, changes in tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income. accounting principles changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board, the international accounting standards board, the sec and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements such as the potential adoption of international financial reporting standards. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. see recent accounting and regulatory developments in the md&amp;a section in the annual report. these changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data, although, in certain instances, these changes may not have an economic impact on our business. credit reserves we could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate. we have credit exposure to residential mortgages, the financial, airline and automotive industries, monoline financial guaranty insurers and many other industries. we cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. we rely on our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. in addition, current market developments may increase default and delinquency rates, which may impact our charge-offs. we cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. if reserves for credit losses are not sufficient, we would be required to record a larger credit loss reserve against current earnings. holding company we are a holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders. we are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our principal bank subsidiaries the bank of new york mellon and bny mellon, n.a. and our other subsidiaries. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banks and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends and interest from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. there are various legal limitations on the extent to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates. for example, as a result of charges related to the restructuring of our securities portfolio in the third quarter of 2009, the bank of new york mellon and bny mellon, n.a. currently require regulatory consent prior to paying a dividend to us. although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or other of our subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. see supervision and regulation dividend restrictions in this form 10-k, the liquidity and dividends section in the md&amp;a results of operations section and note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors (including, in the case of our banking subsidiaries, their depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. the rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of bny mellon 25 table of contents our subsidiaries. a holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities. limits on common stock dividends. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. any increase in bny mellon ongoing quarterly dividend would require consultation with the federal reserve board. any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. provisions of delaware law and provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue additional series of preferred stock and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in off-balance sheet arrangements , risk management , trading activities and risk management and asset/liability management in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements under derivative financial instruments , note 23, note 25, and note 26 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 21 risk factors making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. the following discussion sets forth the most significant risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. however, other factors, besides those discussed below, or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the sec, also could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in our reports address all potential risks that we may face. these risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this form 10-k. see forward-looking statements. market and economic risk uncertainties in financial markets and weakness in the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic and global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the united states and elsewhere around the world. a variety of factors raise concern over the course and strength of the economic recovery, including depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, volatile equity market values, high unemployment, governmental budget deficits (including, in the united states, at the federal, state and municipal level), contagion risk from possible default by other countries on sovereign debt, declining business and consumer confidence and the risk of increased inflation. the resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business, financial condition and results of operations. a worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. in particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events, some of which are discussed at greater length in separate risk factors: the fees earned by our investment management business that is, asset management and wealth management and, accordingly, its profitability are higher as assets under management increase. those fees are also impacted by the composition of the assets under management, with higher fees for some asset categories as compared to others. uncertain and volatile capital markets could result in reductions in assets under management because of investors decisions to withdraw assets or from simple declines in the value of assets under management as markets decline. uncertain and volatile financial markets may also result in changes in customer allocations of funds among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives. those changes in allocation may be from higher fee investments to lower fee investments. for example, at dec. 31, 2011, using the s&amp;p 500 index as a proxy for the global equity markets, we estimate that a 100-point change in the value of the s&amp;p 500 index, sustained for one year, would impact fee revenue by approximately 1% and fully diluted earnings per common share by $0.03 to $0.05. uncertain and volatile capital markets, particularly declines, could reduce the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including pension and other post-retirement plan assets. our ability to continue to operate certain commingled investment funds at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit and to allow unrestricted cash redemptions by investors in those commingled funds (or by investors in other funds managed by us which are invested in those commingled investment funds) may be adversely affected by depressed mark-to-market prices of the underlying portfolio securities held by such funds, or by material defaults on such securities or by the level of liquidity that could be achieved from the portfolio securities in such funds; and we may be faced with claims from investors and exposed to financial loss as a result of our operation of such funds. low interest rates may result in the voluntarily waiving of fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees by us and others in order to prevent clients yields on such funds from becoming uneconomic, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations. bny mellon 21 the process we use to estimate our projected credit losses and to ascertain the fair value of securities held by us is subject to uncertainty in that it requires use of statistical models and difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and others to meet their obligations. in uncertain and volatile capital markets, our ability to estimate our projected credit losses may be impaired, which could adversely affect our overall profitability and results of operations. our ability to access the public capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the markets. disruptions in european economies, or the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties in europe, many of whom are major financial institutions, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the financial markets remain concerned about the ability of certain european countries, particularly greece, ireland and portugal, but also others such as spain and italy, to finance their deficits and service growing debt burdens amidst difficult economic conditions. this loss of confidence has led to rescue measures for greece, ireland and portugal by eurozone countries and the international monetary fund as well as the european central bank intervention to stabilize italian and spanish bonds. the actions required to be taken by those countries as a condition to rescue packages, and by other countries to mitigate similar developments in their economies, have resulted in increased political discord within and among eurozone countries. we are primarily exposed to disruptions in european markets in two principal areas on our balance sheet, in certain interest-bearing deposits with banks, loans, trading assets and investment securities, as well as our investment management fee revenue relating to client investments in european assets. additionally, continued disruptions in europe could lead to increased client deposits and a larger balance sheet, which could adversely impact our leverage ratio. the interdependencies among european economies and financial institutions have contributed to concerns regarding the stability of european financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. financial services institutions are interdependent as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with european counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more european financial institutions, or the financial markets generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses by us or by other institutions in the future. given the scope of our european operations, clients and counterparties, persistent disruptions in the european financial markets, the attempt of a country to abandon the euro, the failure of a significant european financial institution, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, or persistent weakness in the euro, could have an adverse impact on our business or results of operations. continued market volatility may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to manage risk. the capital and credit markets experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption during the 2008 financial crisis. under these extreme conditions, our hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under less volatile market conditions. further market volatility could produce downward pressure on our stock price and credit availability without regard to our underlying financial strength. the broad decline in stock prices throughout the financial services industry, which has also affected our common stock, could require further goodwill impairment testing. a substantial goodwill impairment charge would not have a significant impact on our financial condition, but would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. for a discussion of goodwill, see critical accounting estimates goodwill and other intangibles in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report. severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to reoccur. for a discussion of risk, see risk management in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report. if markets experience further upheavals, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to manage risk and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 bny mellon we may experience further write-downs of financial instruments that we own and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions, reducing our earnings. we maintain an investment securities portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. our portfolio includes u.s. treasury and agency securities, non-agency u.s. and non-u.s. residential mortgage-backed securities, sovereign debt, commercial mortgage-backed securities, municipal securities, foreign covered bonds, fdic-insured debt, collateralized loan obligations and credit cards, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. this volatility affects the amount of our capital. in addition, if such investments suffer credit losses, as we experienced with some of our investments in 2009, we may recognize in earnings the credit losses as an other-than-temporary impairment which could impact our revenue in the quarter in which we recognize the losses. for example, net securities losses totaled $4.8 billion in the third quarter of 2009, primarily as a result of a charge related to restructuring the investment securities portfolio, which resulted in negative earnings per share that quarter. the losses in 2009 reflected both credit- and non-credit-related losses on our investment securities portfolio. we could experience losses related to our investment securities portfolio in the future, which could ultimately adversely affect our results of operations and capital levels. for information regarding our investment securities portfolio, refer to consolidated balance sheet review investment securities and for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the risk management market risk sections both of which are in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report and note 5 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the annual report. reputational, legal and regulatory risk our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally. we are subject to reputational, legal and regulatory risk in the ordinary course of our business. the 2008 financial crisis and current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions have resulted in a significant amount of adverse media coverage of financial institutions. harm to our reputation can result from numerous sources, including adverse publicity arising from events in the financial markets, our perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, the purported actions of our employees or alleged financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well-known companies. additionally, a failure to deliver appropriate standards of service and quality or a failure to appropriately describe our products and services can result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue, higher operating costs and litigation. actions by the financial services industry generally or by other members of or individuals in the financial services industry can also negatively impact our reputation. for example, public perception that some consumers may have been treated unfairly by financial institutions has damaged the reputation of the financial services industry as a whole. should any of these or other events or factors that can undermine our reputation occur, there is no assurance that the additional costs and expenses that we may need to incur to address the issues giving rise to the reputational harm would not adversely affect our earnings and results of operations. we are also the subject of inquiries, investigations and proceedings by regulatory and other governmental agencies in the united states and abroad, as well as the department of justice and state attorneys general. responding to such investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. actions brought against us may result in lawsuits, enforcement actions, injunctions, settlements, damages, fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, the outcome of such proceedings may be difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings, which may last several years. any or all of these risks could result in increased regulatory supervision and affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal proceedings can also adversely impact the morale and performance of our employees. see legal proceedings in note 24 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the annual report. bny mellon 23 we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision in non-u.s. jurisdictions, which may limit our ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions and violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we operate in a highly regulated environment, and are subject to a comprehensive statutory and regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. in light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, the obama administration, congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance, including under basel iii and the dodd-frank act, may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. we are required to submit to the federal reserve an annual capital plan outlining our planned capital actions for the following year. our ability to take capital actions, including our ability to make acquisitions, declare dividends or repurchase our common stock is subject to federal reserve approval, which is dependent on our successful demonstration that such actions would not adversely affect our regulatory capital position in the event of a stressed market environment. for example, any increase in quarterly dividends not contemplated in the annual capital plan will also require federal reserve approval. the federal reserve current guidance provides that, for large bhcs like us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny. in addition, the implementation of certain regulations with regard to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect our regulatory capital position relative to that of our competitors, including those who may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements, which could put further pressure on the price of our common stock. failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. if violations do occur, they could damage our reputation and increase our legal and compliance costs, and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations. laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. therefore, our business may also be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. see supervision and regulation in this form 10-k. some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the united states. such jurisdictions may utilize legal principles and systems that differ from those encountered in the united states. for example, on various dates from 2004 to 2011, bny mellon subsidiary pershing llc was named as a defendant in more than 100 lawsuits filed in germany by plaintiffs who are investors with accounts at german broker-dealers. see legal proceedings in note 24 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the annual report. among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be decided more quickly than in the united states, trials may not involve testimony of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. these factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess and therefore we may not be able to estimate potential exposure for a matter. recent legislative and regulatory actions may have an adverse effect on our operations. in july 2010, president obama signed into law the dodd-frank act. this law broadly affects the financial services industry, particularly those entities considered to be systemically important , such as bhcs with assets of over $50 billion, including bny mellon, by establishing a framework for systemic risk oversight, creating a liquidation authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. further, in july 2011, the basel committee issued a consultative document setting forth proposals to apply a new tier 1 common equity surcharge to certain g-sibs, and in november, the financial stability board indicated that bny mellon is one of the 29 g-sibs subject to this surcharge. additionally, in its proposed sifi rules, the federal reserve indicated that it intends to propose, in a separate rulemaking, a tier 1 common equity surcharge for g-sibs based on the basel committee proposal. 24 bny mellon among numerous other provisions of recent legislative and regulatory changes that could have an effect on bny mellon are: the basel committee heightened capital and liquidity requirements; the potential requirement to register as a municipal advisor . depending upon the sec final interpretation of the statutory requirement, bny mellon and a large number of employees located throughout the country may be required to register as a municipal adviser, which would impose increased costs and burdens on, and changes to, our business and may necessitate a re-evaluation of the affected services; the required registration of swap dealers and associated compliance duties, reporting and record-keeping with respect to swaps and clearing and execution obligations, among other duties; and various features of the volcker rule element of the dodd-frank act, including: o establishment of a costly heightened compliance regime; o the need to liquidate investments in certain funds at an accelerated pace at unfavorable pricing; and o preclusion from launching new funds to meet customer demand, and the competitive disadvantage vis-&agrave;-vis other managers not subject to the volcker rule. u.s. regulatory agencies banking, securities and commodities are steadily publishing notices of proposed regulations required by the dodd-frank act, and new bodies created by dodd-frank (including the fsoc and the cfpb) are commencing operations. the related findings of various regulatory and commission studies, the interpretations issued as part of the rulemaking process and the final regulations that are issued with respect to various elements of the new law may cause changes that impact the profitability of our business activities and require that we change certain of our business practices and plans, including those relating to cross-selling our products and services. these changes could also expose us to additional regulatory costs and require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes, all of which could impact our profitability. see supervision and regulation in this form 10-k for additional information regarding the potential impact of the dodd-frank act on our business. interest rate environment low or volatile interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. our net interest revenue and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes and changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets over which we have no control. our net interest revenue is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. we also earn net interest revenue on interest-free funds we hold. the global market crisis has triggered a series of cuts in interest rates. during fiscal 2010 and 2011, the federal open market committee kept the target federal funds rate between 0% and 0.25%. the low interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues. it has also resulted in the voluntary waiving of fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees by us and others in order to prevent the yields on such funds from becoming uneconomic, which has an adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations. changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. a rising interest rate environment may result in our earning a larger net interest spread. conversely, a falling interest rate environment may result in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. further rapid increases in interest rates could also trigger one or more of the following additional effects, which could impact our business, results of operations and financial condition: changes in net interest revenue depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. see discussion under asset/liability management in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report; an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in interest rates; bny mellon 25 a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates; and increased borrowing costs. a more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the risk management section in the md&amp;a results of operations in the annual report. deposit insurance deposit insurance premiums may continue to increase, which could increase our costs. during 2009 and 2010, due to a higher level of bank failures, the fdic increased recurring deposit insurance premiums, imposed a special assessment on insured financial institutions, and required insured financial institutions to prepay three years of deposit premiums, which increased our costs. due to the continuing volume of bank failures, it is possible that a continued high level of funding will be required from insured financial institutions, such as the bank of new york mellon and bny mellon, n.a. additionally, the failure by bny mellon bank subsidiaries to maintain its well capitalized status could also lead to higher fdic assessments. competition we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many businesses in which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. competitors include other banks, trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, asset managers, insurance companies and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. in addition, technological advances and the growth of internet-based commerce have made it possible for other types of institutions, such as outsourcing companies and data processing companies, to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. increased competition in any one or all of these areas may require us to make additional capital investments in our businesses in order to remain competitive. furthermore, pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services, which would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. recently enacted and proposed legislation and regulation may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all, including legislation relating to restrictions on the types of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage, such as seed capital investing. this legislation and other regulations may not apply to all of our competitors, which could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively. a decline in our competitive position could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and could impact our ability to attract and retain talent. dependence on fee-based business we are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, weak financial markets or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences. our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, which is distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from loans and other traditional interest-generating products and services. we have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, such as investment management, custody, corporate trust, depositary receipts, clearing, collateral management and treasury services. fees for many of our products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. corporate actions, cross-border investing, global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues. if the volumes of these activities decrease, our revenues will also decrease, which would negatively impact our results of operations. asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. this is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. weak financial markets could result in reduced market 26 bny mellon values in some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. if there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds, defined benefit plans or defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected. our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity. the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. most of our foreign exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more volatility. accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform. we provide custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, cash management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. if we fail to perform these services in a manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. in addition, any such failure may result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. from time to time our internal strategies and forecasts may assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. a decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline in the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. a decline in the rate at which our clients outsource functions would also adversely affect our results of operations. integration of acquisitions our failure to successfully integrate strategic acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. for example, on july 1, 2010, we acquired global investment servicing ( gis ), which provides a comprehensive suite of products that includes subaccounting, fund accounting/administration, custody, managed account services and alternative investment services. we are in the process of integrating gis and other businesses that we have acquired, but each of these acquisitions poses integration challenges, including successfully retaining and assimilating clients and key employees, capitalizing on certain revenue synergies, integrating the acquired company accounting management information, internal controls and other administrative systems and technology. we may be required to spend a significant amount of time and resources to integrate these acquisitions and the anticipated benefits may take longer to achieve than projected. moreover, to the extent we enter into an agreement to buy or sell an entity, there can be no guarantee that the transaction will close when anticipated, or at all. in particular, in certain instances we must seek regulatory approvals before we can acquire another organization, which can delay or disrupt such acquisitions. if we fail to successfully integrate strategic acquisitions on a timely basis or in a cost- bny mellon 27 effective manner, we may not meet our expectations regarding the profitability of such acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. counterparty risk the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, many of whom are major financial institutions, and our assumption of credit and counterparty risk, could expose us to loss and adversely affect our business. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, particularly with other financial institutions, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions in the future. for example, as a result of our membership in several industry clearing or settlement exchanges, we may be required to guarantee obligations and liabilities or provide financial support in the event that other members do not honor their obligations or default. these obligations may be limited to members who dealt with the defaulting member or to the amount (or a multiple of the amount) of our contribution to a member guarantee fund, or, in a few cases, the obligation may be unlimited. the consolidation of financial service firms and the failures of other financial institutions have increased the concentration of our counterparty risk. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. in addition, disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral significantly increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. the degree of client demand for short-term credit also tends to increase during periods of market turbulence, exposing us to further counterparty-related risks. for example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may engage in significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news that was not anticipated by the fund manager. our relationship with our clients, the nature of the settlement process and our systems may result in our extension of short-term credit in such circumstances. for some types of clients, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which may expose us to potential loss if the client experiences credit difficulties. in addition to our exposure to financial institutions, we are from time to time exposed to concentrated credit risk at the industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. as a consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to one of its affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized. moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured and, when our exposure is secured, the realizable market value of the collateral may have declined by the time we exercise rights against that collateral. this risk may be particularly acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily impaired market. we act as agent for securities lending arrangements between customers and financial counterparties, including broker-dealers, wherein securities are sourced from our customers versus cash or securities posted by such financial counterparties. we invest the proceeds from such securities lending transactions pursuant to certain instructions or guidelines from customers. in certain cases, we agree to indemnify our customers against defaults on the securities lending agreements and may have to buy-in the securities with the cash collateral or the proceeds from the liquidation of the collateral. in those instances, we, rather than our customers, are exposed to the risks of the defaulting counterparty on the securities lending transaction. although our overall business is subject to these interdependencies, several of our business units are particularly sensitive to them, including our currency and other trading activities, our securities lending business and our investment management business. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 28 bny mellon credit ratings any material reduction in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our subsidiaries, the bank of new york mellon or bny mellon, n.a., could increase the cost of funding and borrowing to us and our rated subsidiaries and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our debt and trust preferred securities and the debt and deposits of our subsidiaries, the bank of new york mellon and bny mellon, n.a., are currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and our rated subsidiaries and their outlook on us and our rated subsidiaries. their credit ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. in addition, rating agencies employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. changes to rating agency models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside of our control could impact a rating agency judgment of the rating or outlook it assigns us or our rated subsidiaries. in view of the difficulties experienced in recent years by many financial institutions, we believe that the rating agencies may heighten their level of scrutiny, may increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of rating levels. for example, in november 2011, s&amp;p revised its ratings methodology for banks, which resulted in a downgrade of the debt ratings of bny mellon and our rated subsidiaries. similarly in december 2011, moody placed the long-term ratings of bny mellon and its rated subsidiaries on review for possible downgrade and indicated that it would review bny mellon risk profile, capital plans and earnings prospects in light of an operating environment characterized by lower interest rates, greater capital markets volatility and heightened litigation risks. moreover, moody has indicated that regulatory changes in the dodd-frank act could result in lower debt and deposit ratings for u.s. banks and other financial institutions, including us, whose ratings currently benefit from assumed government support. currently, our ratings benefit from one notch of lift and the bank of new york mellon and bny mellon, n.a. benefit from two notches of lift as a result of the rating agency government support assumptions. moody continues to evaluate whether to reduce its support assumptions to below pre-financial crisis levels for banks that currently benefit from ratings uplift. in this context, in june 2011, the rating outlook on the deposit, senior debt, and senior subordinated debt ratings of bny mellon and its rated subsidiaries changed to negative from stable. similarly, in november 2011, s&amp;p outlook on the debt ratings of bny mellon and its rated subsidiaries changed to negative from stable, reflecting s&amp;p outlook on the u.s. government rating and its assumption that our ratings enjoy one notch of uplift from assumed government support. there can be no assurance that we or our rated subsidiaries will maintain our respective credit ratings or outlook on our securities. a material reduction in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our rated subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our access to credit markets, the related cost of funding, our credit spreads, our liquidity and on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. a material reduction in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of the bank of new york mellon or bny mellon, n.a. could affect the cost of, and other terms upon which we are able to obtain, funding and borrowing. our credit spreads, which is the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay our debt investors, may be impacted by our credit ratings and market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, in connection with certain over-the-counter derivatives contracts and other trading agreements, counterparties may require us to provide additional collateral or to terminate these contracts and agreements and collateral financing arrangements in the event of a material credit ratings downgrade below certain ratings levels. termination of these contracts and agreements could impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. an increase in the costs of our funding and borrowing, or an impairment of our liquidity, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us. bny mellon 29 supervisory standards failure to satisfy regulatory standards, including well-capitalized and well-managed status or capital adequacy guidelines more generally, could result in limitations on our activities and adversely affect our financial condition. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, bny mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. as discussed under supervision and regulation in this form 10-k, bny mellon is regulated as a bhc and an fhc. our ability to maintain our status as an fhc is dependent upon a number of factors, including our u.s. depository institution subsidiaries qualifying on an ongoing basis as well capitalized and well managed under the banking agencies prompt corrective action regulations and upon bny mellon qualifying on an ongoing basis as well capitalized and well managed under applicable federal reserve regulations. failure by bny mellon or one of our u.s. bank subsidiaries to qualify as well capitalized and well managed , if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status as an fhc and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. additionally, an fhc that does not continue to meet all the requirements for fhc status could lose the ability to undertake new activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for bhcs without fhc status or to continue such activities. during periods of market uncertainty, custody customers may choose to hold cash balances instead of securities, with those cash balances customarily invested in deposits of our bank subsidiaries. such inflows of cash deposits could adversely impact our leverage ratio. as a bhc, we are subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal reserve. our bank subsidiaries are subject to similar capital requirements, administered by the federal reserve in the case of the bank of new york mellon and by the occ in the case of our national bank subsidiaries, bny mellon, n.a. and the bank of new york mellon trust company, national association. failure by bny mellon or one of our u.s. bank subsidiaries to maintain its status as adequately capitalized would lead to regulatory sanctions and limitations and could lead the federal banking agencies to take prompt corrective action . furthermore, failure by one of our bank subsidiaries to maintain its status as well capitalized could lead to higher fdic assessments. if our company, our subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we may not be able to deploy capital in the operation of our business or distribute capital to stockholders, which may adversely affect our business. the capital requirements applicable to us as well as to our subsidiary banks are in the process of being substantially revised, in connection with basel iii and the requirements of the dodd-frank act and bny mellon and our subsidiary banks will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. we cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations. see supervision and regulation in this form 10-k and the liquidity and dividends and capital capital adequacy sections in the md&amp;a results of operations section and the recent accounting and regulatory developments section in the md&amp;a section in the annual report. access to capital markets if our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital markets on a regular basis. we rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated operations. events or circumstances, such as market disruptions or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. 30 bny mellon monetary and other governmental policies change or uncertainty in monetary and other governmental policies may impact our profitability and ability to compete. the monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the federal reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. for example, the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the united states and its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. the actions of the federal reserve also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, and its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. due to current market conditions, we anticipate that tax and other government policies will become more rigorous. heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. the cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results in additional costs. our business and earnings are also affected by the fiscal or other policies that are adopted by various u.s. regulatory authorities, non-u.s. governments and international agencies. changes in domestic and international fiscal and monetary policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict and we cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such changes would have upon our financial condition or operations. see supervision and regulation in this form 10-k. operational risk our business may be adversely affected by operational risk. we are exposed to operational risk as a result of conducting various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services. examples of operational risk include: the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside bny mellon, business interruption due to system failures, natural disasters or other unforeseeable events, or other risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. operational risk may also include breaches of our technology and information systems resulting from unauthorized access to confidential information or from internal or external threats, such as cyber attacks. operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulatory requirements or contracts which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. we regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as systems failures or natural disasters, could damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and ultimately negatively impact our results of operations due to potentially higher expenses and lower revenues. for a discussion of operational risk see risk management operational risk in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report. a failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. bny mellon 31 if our information systems experience a disruption or breach in security that results in a loss of confidential client information or impacts our ability to provide services to our clients, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. the security of our computer systems, software and networks, and those functions that we may outsource, may be vulnerable to breaches, hacker attacks, unauthorized access and misuse, computer viruses and other cybersecurity risks and events that could result in failures or disruptions in our business, customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit and loan systems. our businesses that rely heavily on technology, such as our investment services business, are particularly vulnerable to security breaches and technology disruptions. breaches of security may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having authorized or unauthorized access to our or our clients or counterparties confidential information, including employees and customers, as well as hackers. a breach of security that results in the loss of confidential client information may require us to reimburse clients for data and credit monitoring efforts and would be costly and time-consuming, and may negatively impact our results of operations and reputation. additionally, security breaches or disruptions of our information system could impact our ability to provide services to our clients, which could expose us to liability for damages, result in the loss of customer business, damage our reputation, subject us to regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the failure to upgrade or maintain our computer systems, software and networks, as necessary, could also make us susceptible to breaches and unauthorized access and misuse. there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify, investigate or remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from information systems security risks. for a discussion of operational risk, see risk management operational risk in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report. technology we depend on our technology and intellectual property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected. we are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. in addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers. developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market in a timely manner at a competitive price. rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments. we cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability. furthermore, if a third party were to assert a claim of infringement or misappropriation of its proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party. 32 bny mellon global operations we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating globally and which may materially adversely affect our business. in conducting our business and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of loss from the outbreak of hostilities and various unfavorable political, economic, legal or other developments, including social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and changes in laws and regulations. our international businesses are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. these regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability and regulatory capital. the failure of our systems of internal control to properly mitigate such risks, or of its operating infrastructure to support such international activities, could result in operational failures and regulatory fines or sanctions, which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. further, our businesses and operations from time to time enter into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets. various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime, corruption, war or military actions, and a lack of an established legal and regulatory framework are additional challenges in certain emerging markets. revenue from international operations and trading in non-u.s. securities and other obligations may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above considerations. the possible effects of any of these conditions may adversely affect our business and increase volatility in global financial markets generally. acts of terrorism and global conflicts acts of terrorism and global conflicts may have a negative impact on our business and operations. acts of terrorism and global conflicts could have a significant impact on our business and operations. while we have in place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism and global conflicts could still damage our facilities, disrupt or delay the normal operations of our business (including communications and technology), result in harm or cause travel limitations on our employees, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers and counterparties. acts of terrorism and global conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent that those acts or conflicts result in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the united states or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. war, terror attacks, political unrest, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further negatively impact economic growth, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are unable to predict. new business new lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. from time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. in developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. as we develop new lines of business or new products or services, our revenues and costs may fluctuate because generally new businesses require start-up expenses but take time for revenues to develop. as a result of the uncertainties associated with the entry into new businesses, our business may be adversely impacted. attraction and retention of employees our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain employees. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate our employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny of the compensation practices of large financial institutions. competition for the best employees in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we bny mellon 33 will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain key personnel. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain key employees include our compensation and benefits programs and our reputation for rewarding and promoting qualified employees. our ability to attract and retain key executives and other employees may be hindered as a result of regulations applicable to incentive compensation and other aspects of our compensation programs promulgated by the federal reserve and other regulators in the united states and worldwide, regulations on incentive compensation to be promulgated by various u.s. regulators pursuant to the dodd-frank act and other existing and potential regulations. these regulations, which include and are expected to include mandatory deferral and clawback requirements, do not and will not apply to some of our competitors and to other institutions with which we compete for talent. our ability to recruit and retain key talent may be adversely affected by these regulations. tax laws and regulations tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition. in the course of our business, we receive inquiries from both u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities on the amount of taxes we owe, such as those matters discussed in notes 13 and 24 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. if we are not successful in defending these inquiries, we may be required to adjust the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, all of which can require a greater provision for taxes or otherwise negatively affect earnings. probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will negatively affect us or our business. in addition, changes in tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income. accounting principles changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board, the international accounting standards board, the sec and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements such as the potential adoption of international financial reporting standards. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. see recent accounting and regulatory developments in the md&amp;a section in the annual report. these changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data. credit reserves we could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate. we have credit exposure to residential mortgages, the financial, airline and automotive industries, monoline financial guaranty insurers and many other industries. we cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. we rely on statistical models and our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. in addition, current market developments may increase default and delinquency rates, which may impact our charge-offs. we cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. if reserves for credit losses are not sufficient, we would be required to record a larger credit loss reserve against current earnings. holding company risks we are a non-operating holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our stockholders. we are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our principal bank subsidiaries the bank of new york mellon and bny mellon, n.a. and our other subsidiaries. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banks and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends and 34 bny mellon interest from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our stockholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. there are various legal limitations on the extent to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates. although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or other of our subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. see supervision and regulation payment of dividends and stock repurchases in this form 10-k, the liquidity and dividends section in the md&amp;a results of operations section and note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors (including, in the case of our banking subsidiaries, their depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. the rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. a holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities. our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by the federal reserve or applicable provisions of delaware law. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. any increase in bny mellon ongoing quarterly dividend would require approval from the federal reserve. any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. delaware law anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. provisions of delaware law and provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue additional series of preferred stock and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. these provisions could also potentially deprive stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares of common stock at a premium over prevailing market prices as a result of a takeover bid or merger. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the critical accounting estimates , off-balance sheet arrangements , risk management , trading activities and risk management and asset/liability management sections in the md&amp;a results of operations section in the annual report and note 1 under derivative financial instruments and notes 22, 24 and 25 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 8 risk factors the information required by this item is set forth in the annual report under md&amp;a risk factors , which portion is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the critical accounting estimates , off-balance sheet arrangements , risk management , trading activities and risk management and asset/liability management sections in the md&amp;a in the annual report and derivative financial instruments under note 1 and notes 21, 23 and 24 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 7 risk factors the information required by this item is set forth in the annual report under md&amp;a risk factors , which portion is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the critical accounting estimates , off-balance sheet arrangements , risk management , trading activities and risk management and asset/liability management sections in the md&amp;a in the annual report and derivative financial instruments under note 1 and notes 20, 22 and 23 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 6 risk factors the information required by this item is set forth in the annual report under md&amp;a risk factors , which portion is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the critical accounting estimates , off-balance sheet arrangements , risk management , trading activities and risk management and asset/liability management sections in the md&amp;a in the annual report and derivative financial instruments under note 1 and notes 18, 20 and 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 6 risk factors the information required by this item is set forth in the annual report under md&amp;a risk factors, which portion is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the critical accounting estimates, off-balance sheet arrangements, risk management, trading activities and risk management and asset/liability management sections in the md&amp;a in the annual report and derivative financial instruments under note 1 and notes 18, 20 and 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 8 risk factors the information required by this item is set forth in the annual report under md&amp;a risk factors, which portion is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the critical accounting estimates, off-balance sheet arrangements, risk management, trading activities and risk management and asset/liability management sections in the md&amp;a in the annual report and derivative financial instruments under note 1 and notes 19, 21 and 22 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 7 risk factors the information required by this item is set forth in the annual report under md&amp;a risk factors, which portion is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the critical accounting estimates, off-balance sheet arrangements, trading activities and risk management, asset/liability management and risk management sections in the md&amp;a in the annual report and derivative financial instruments under note 1 and notes 20 and 23 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 8 risk factors the information required by this item is set forth in the annual report under md&amp;a risk factors , which portion is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the critical accounting estimates , off-balance sheet arrangements , risk management , trading activities and risk management and asset/liability management sections in the md&amp;a in the annual report and derivative financial instruments under note 1 and notes 20, 22 and 23 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 7 risk factors the information required by this item is set forth in the annual report under md&amp;a risk factors , which portion is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is set forth in the critical accounting estimates , off-balance sheet arrangements , risk management , trading activities and risk management and asset/liability management sections in the md&amp;a in the annual report and derivative financial instruments under note 1 and notes 20, 22 and 23 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.