risk factors 17 risk factors in this 2014 form 10-k for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. health care reform the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. implementation dates of the health care reform law began in september 2010 and will continue through 2018, and many aspects of the health care reform law are already effective and have been implemented by us. certain significant provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to medicare advantage premiums, the establishment of federally facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, an annual insurance industry premium-based assessment, and a three-year commercial reinsurance fee. the 3 table of contents health care reform law is discussed more fully in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled health care reform. business segments on january 1, 2014, we reclassified certain of our businesses from our healthcare services segment to our employer group segment to correspond with internal management reporting changes. our reportable segments remain the same and prior period segment financial information has been recast to conform to the 2014 presentation. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for segment financial information. we manage our business with three reportable segments: retail, employer group, and healthcare services. in addition, the other businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles. these segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer to assess performance and allocate resources. our products our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. these products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. health maintenance organizations, or hmos, generally require a referral from the member's primary care provider before seeing certain specialty physicians. preferred provider organizations, or ppos, provide members the freedom to choose a health care provider without requiring a referral. however ppos generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider's fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the ppo's network. point of service, or pos, plans combine the advantages of hmo plans with the flexibility of ppo plans. in general, pos plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan's network or outside the network. in addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy, provider, home based, and integrated wellness services. at the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. three core elements of the model are to improve the consumer experience by simplifying the interaction, engaging members in clinical programs, and offering assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused. the model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. the discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. 4 table of contents our retail segment products this segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the retail segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2014 : retail segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: individual medicare advantage $ 25,941 53.9 % medicare stand-alone pdp 3,396 7.1 % total retail medicare 29,337 61.0 % individual commercial 3,265 6.8 % state-based medicaid 1,096 2.3 % individual specialty 256 0.4 % total premiums 33,954 70.5 % services 39 0.1 % total premiums and services revenue $ 33,993 70.6 % individual medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 30 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. we have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. we believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional fee-for-service medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as medicare ffs. as an alternative to medicare ffs, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under medicare ffs. our medicare advantage plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. individual medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, chronic care management, and care coordination, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of medicare ffs, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide 5 table of contents members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. most of our medicare pffs plans are network-based products with in and out of network benefits due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. in these areas, we offer medicare pffs plans that have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to medicare ffs payment rates. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms's risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. at december 31, 2014 , we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 2,446,200 individual medicare advantage members, including approximately 542,400 members in florida. these florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $7.2 billion , which represented approximately 27.8% of our individual medicare advantage premiums revenue, or 15.0% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2014 . our hmo, ppo, and pffs products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage products have been renewed for 2015 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2015 have been approved. 6 table of contents individual medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d, including a pdp plan co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., or the humana-walmart plan. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our pdp bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled medicare part d provisions. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp products have been renewed for 2015 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2015 have been approved. we have administered cms's limited income newly eligible transition, or li-net, prescription drug plan program since 2010. this program allows individuals who receive medicare's low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a medicare part d plan. cms temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both medicare and medicaid into the li-net prescription drug plan program, and subsequently transitions each member into a medicare part d plan that may or may not be a humana medicare plan. medicare and medicaid dual eligible and long-term care support services medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. the dual eligible population represents a disproportionate share of medicaid and medicare costs. there were approximately 9.6 million dual eligible individuals in the united states in 2014 , trending upward due to medicaid eligibility expansions and individuals aging into the medicare program. these dual eligibles may enroll in a privately-offered medicare advantage product, but may also receive assistance from medicaid for medicaid benefits, such as nursing home care and/or assistance with medicare premiums and cost sharing. the dual eligible population is a strategic area of focus for us and we are leveraging the capabilities of our integrated care delivery model, including care management programs particularly as they relate to chronic conditions, to expand our services to this population. as of december 31, 2014 , we served approximately 404,000 dual eligible members in our medicare advantage plans and approximately 992,000 dual eligible members in our stand-alone prescription drug plans. since the enactment of the health care reform law, states are pursuing stand-alone dual eligible cms demonstration programs in which medicare, medicaid, and long-term care support services (ltss) benefits are more tightly integrated. eligibility for participation in these stand-alone dual eligible demonstration programs may require state-based contractual relationships in existing medicaid programs. we were successful in our bids for state-based contracts in florida and virginia in 2013 and in ohio, illinois, and kentucky in 2012. ohio, illinois, and virginia are contracts for stand-alone dual eligible demonstration programs serving individuals dually eligible for both the federal medicare program and the state-based medicaid program. we began serving members in illinois in the first quarter of 2014 and in virginia in the second quarter of 2014. we partner with organizations, including caresource management group company, to serve individuals in certain states. we began serving members in kentucky and certain ltss regions in florida at various effective dates ranging from the second half of 2013 through the first quarter of 2014. ltss eligible beneficiaries heavily overlap with the dual eligible population. on september 6, 2013 , we acquired american eldercare inc., or american eldercare, the largest provider of nursing home diversion services in the state of florida, serving frail and elderly individuals in home and community-based settings. american eldercare complements our core capabilities and strength in serving seniors and disabled individuals with a unique focus on individualized and integrated care, and has contracts to provide medicaid long-term support services across the entire state of florida. the enrollment effective dates for the various regions ranged from august 2013 to march 2014. 7 table of contents individual commercial coverage our individual health plans are marketed under the humanaone brand. we offer products both on and off of the public exchange, including exchange offerings in certain metropolitan areas in 15 states. we offer products on exchanges where we can achieve an affordable cost of care, including hmo offerings and select networks in most markets. our off-exchange products offered in 22 states are primarily ppo and pos offerings, including plans issued prior to 2014 that were previously underwritten. policies issued prior to the enactment of the health care reform law on march 23, 2010 are grandfathered policies. grandfathered policies are exempt from most of the requirements of the health care reform law, including mandated benefits. however, our grandfathered plans include provisions that guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. policies issued between march 23, 2010 and december 31, 2013 are required to conform to the health care reform law, including mandated benefits, upon renewal in 2014, 2015 or 2016, depending on the state. prior to 2014, our humanaone plans primarily were offered as ppo plans in 27 states where we could generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. as indicated above, this individual product included provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. rewards-based wellness programs are included with many individual products. we also offer optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a portfolio of financial protection products. employer group segment products this segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including medical and supplemental benefit plans as well as health and wellness products as described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the employer group segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2014 : employer group segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) external revenue: premiums: group medicare advantage $ 5,490 11.4 % group medicare stand-alone pdp 8 % total group medicare 5,498 11.4 % fully-insured commercial group 5,339 11.1 % group specialty 1,098 2.3 % total premiums 11,935 24.8 % services 362 0.8 % total premiums and services revenue $ 12,297 25.6 % intersegment services revenue: wellness $ 78 n/a total intersegment services revenue $ 78 n/a not applicable employer group commercial coverage our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through hmo, ppo, or pos plans, or self-funded basis. our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. we participate in the federal employee health benefits 8 table of contents program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government's health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. as with our individual commercial products, the employer group offerings include humanavitality , our wellness and loyalty reward program. our administrative services only, or aso, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured hmo, ppo, or pos products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, more than half of our aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. as with individual commercial policies, employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a portfolio of voluntary benefit products. group medicare advantage and medicare stand-alone pdp we offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace medicare wrap or medicare supplement products with medicare advantage or stand-alone pdps from humana. these products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an employer's post-retirement benefit structure. wellness we offer wellness solutions including our humana vitality wellness and loyalty rewards program, health coaching, and clinical programs. these programs, when offered collectively to employer customers as our total health product, turn any standard plan of the employer's choosing into an integrated health and well-being solution that encourages participation in these programs. our humana vitality program provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual's needs and wants. a key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an incentive program. we also provide employee assistance programs and coaching services including a comprehensive turn-key coaching program, an enhancement to a medically based coaching protocol and a platform that makes coaching programs more efficient. our healthcare services segment products the products offered by our healthcare services segment are key to our integrated care delivery model. this segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that offer services including pharmacy solutions, provider services, home based services, integrated behavioral health services, and predictive modeling and informatics services to other humana businesses, as well as external health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. our intersegment revenue is described in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. the following table presents our services revenue for the healthcare services segment by line of business for the year ended december 31, 2014 : 9 table of contents healthcare services segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) intersegment revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 16,905 n/a provider services 1,110 n/a home based services 585 n/a integrated behavioral health services 133 n/a total intersegment revenue $ 18,733 external services revenue: provider services $ 1,076 2.3 % home based services 107 0.2 % pharmacy solutions 99 0.2 % integrated behavioral health services % total external services revenue $ 1,282 2.7 % n/a not applicable pharmacy solutions humana pharmacy solutions , or hps, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. hps also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through rightsourcerx , as well as research services. provider services our subsidiary, concentra inc. , acquired in 2010, delivers occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness services to employees and the general public through its operation of medical centers and worksite medical facilities. our cac medical centers, or cac, in south florida operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers staffed by primary care providers and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry. our subsidiary, metropolitan health networks, inc., or metropolitan, and our noncontrolling equity interest in mcci holdings, llc, or mcci, both acquired in 2012, are medical services organizations, or msos, that coordinate medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries and medicaid recipients, primarily in florida and texas. these msos represent key components of our integrated care delivery model which we believe is scalable to new markets. home based services via in-home care, telephonic health counseling/coaching, and remote monitoring, we are actively involved in the care management of our customers with the greatest needs. home based services include the operations of humana at home, inc., or humana at home (formerly known as seniorbridge family companies, inc.), acquired in 2012. as a chronic-care provider of in-home care for seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. we focus our deployment of these services in geographies, such as florida, with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions. the clinical support and care provided by humana at home is designed to improve health outcomes and result in a higher number of days members can spend at their homes instead of in an acute care facility. 10 table of contents integrated behavioral health services corphealth, inc. (d/b/a lifesynch ), a humana subsidiary, offers care management, behavioral health services and wellness programs. other businesses products and services offered by our other businesses are described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for our other businesses for the year ended december 31, 2014 : other businesses premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: military services $ 19 % closed-block long-term care insurance policies 51 0.1 % total premiums 70 0.1 % services 481 1.0 % total premiums and services revenue $ 551 1.1 % military services under our tricare south region contract with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the dod. on april 1, 2012, we began delivering services under our current tricare south region contract that the defense health agency, or dha (formerly known as the tricare management activity), awarded to us on february 25, 2011. under the current contract, we provide administrative services while the federal government retains all of the risk of the cost of health benefits. accordingly, we account for revenues under the current contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. closed block of long-term care insurance policies we have a non-strategic closed block of approximately 32,700 long-term care insurance policies associated with our acquisition of kmg america corporation in 2007. long-term care insurance policies are intended to protect the insured from the cost of long-term care services including those provided by nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and adult day care as well as home health care services. no new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block and we are evaluating strategic alternatives for this business. informatics programs to enhance the quality of care for members are key elements of our integrated care delivery model. we believe that technology represents a significant opportunity in health care that positively impacts our members. we have enhanced our health information technology capabilities enabling us to create a more complete view of an individual's health, designed to connect, coordinate and simplify health care while reducing costs. these capabilities include our health care analytics engine, which reviews millions of clinical data points each day to provide members, providers, and payers real-time clinical insights and gaps-in-care data to improve health outcomes, as well as technology that allows disparate electronic health record systems and humana to share data that gives providers a comprehensive view of the patient and enables the exchange of essential health information in real-time. as we have integrated these and related assets into our operations over the past few years, we have enhanced our ability to leverage predictive modeling capabilities that enable us to anticipate, rather than react to, our members' health needs. to that end, we have accelerated our process for identifying and reaching out to members in need of clinical intervention. at december 31, 2014 , we had approximately 420,700 members with complex chronic conditions in the humana chronic care program, 11 table of contents a 50.1% increase compared with approximately 280,200 members at december 31, 2013 , reflecting enhanced predictive modeling capabilities and focus on proactive clinical outreach and member engagement, particularly for our medicare advantage membership. we believe these initiatives lead to better health outcomes for our members and lower health care costs. membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2014 , by market and product: retail segment employer group segment (in thousands) individual medicare advantage individual medicare stand- alone pdp individual commercial state- based contracts fully- insured commercial group group medicare advantage and stand- alone pdp aso other businesses total percent of total florida 542.4 300.6 252.7 293.7 189.7 22.6 28.3 1,630.0 11.8 % texas 184.0 258.5 181.6 238.6 63.2 118.2 1,044.1 7.5 % kentucky 74.5 185.6 27.3 101.8 81.0 472.1 942.3 6.8 % georgia 92.8 90.3 286.4 140.8 2.4 15.8 628.5 4.5 % ohio 81.3 121.1 21.9 48.6 151.0 139.0 562.9 4.1 % illinois 83.9 126.1 28.8 4.8 108.1 11.6 90.3 453.6 3.3 % california 38.4 378.9 9.6 0.1 0.1 427.1 3.1 % wisconsin 51.5 80.2 11.7 89.4 14.2 113.3 360.3 2.6 % missouri/kansas 82.2 175.6 14.3 53.3 5.0 6.9 337.3 2.4 % tennessee 119.6 87.6 27.8 50.5 2.2 39.5 327.2 2.4 % louisiana 127.9 50.1 22.7 63.1 10.5 30.4 304.7 2.2 % north carolina 79.6 139.9 5.9 37.4 262.8 1.9 % virginia 131.6 104.8 7.7 3.9 248.0 1.8 % indiana 71.9 99.6 14.3 22.0 3.9 19.5 231.2 1.7 % michigan 49.1 113.3 34.1 8.8 13.8 3.7 222.8 1.6 % colorado 31.2 75.3 35.1 24.3 7.3 0.4 173.6 1.3 % arizona 56.2 65.2 18.6 29.4 1.5 1.5 172.4 1.2 % military services 3,090.4 3,090.4 22.3 % others 548.1 1,536.8 147.6 67.0 62.6 25.4 35.0 2,422.5 17.5 % totals 2,446.2 3,989.5 1,148.1 298.5 1,235.5 494.2 1,104.3 3,125.4 13,841.7 100.0 % provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we employ or with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into various care management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. 12 table of contents we have available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. we also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. the terms of our contracts with hospitals and physicians may also vary between medicare and commercial business. a significant portion of our medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to medicare reimbursement levels and methodologies. automatic reductions to the federal budget, known as sequestration, took effect on april 1, 2013, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year. due to the uncertainty around the application of these reductions, there can be no assurances that we can completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs. see legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. capitation we offer providers a continuum of opportunities to increase the integration of care and offer assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. these include performance bonuses, shared savings and shared risk relationships. for some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership, primarily hmo membership. under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated member. we believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery model at the core of our strategy. our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries. at december 31, 2014 , approximately 883,000 members, or 6.4% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts, including 709,000 individual medicare advantage members, or 29.0% of our total individual medicare advantage membership. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician's financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we typically process all claims and monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we delegated claim processing functions under capitation arrangements covering approximately 141,200 hmo members, including 113,200 individual medicare advantage members, or 16.0% of the 709,000 individual medicare advantage members covered under risk-based contracts at december 31, 2014 , with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating the members' health care benefits. capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the 13 table of contents underlying claims experience was approximately $833 million , or 2.2% of total benefits expense, for the year ended december 31, 2014 . we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. providers participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses, review of their malpractice liability claims histories, review of their board certifications, if applicable, and review of applicable quality information. a committee, composed of a peer group of providers, reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care, and urac. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. additionally, all products sold on the federal and state marketplaces are required to be accredited. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa reviews our compliance based on standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in most of our commercial, medicare and medicaid hmo/pos markets with enough history and membership, except puerto rico, and for many of our ppo markets. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2014 , we employed approximately 1,700 sales representatives, as well as approximately 1,200 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of individual medicare and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products in our retail segment, including making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we also market our individual medicare products via a strategic alliance with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart. this alliance includes stationing humana representatives in certain wal-mart stores, sam's club locations, and neighborhood markets across the country which provides an opportunity to enroll medicare eligible individuals in person. in addition, we market our individual medicare and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products through licensed independent brokers and agents. for our medicare products, commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure, regulated in structure and amount by cms. for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products, we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. 14 table of contents in our employer group segment, individuals may become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer's or group's exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. in addition, we have begun to offer plans to employer groups through private exchanges. employers can give their employees a set amount of money and then direct them to a private exchange. there, employees can shop for a health plan and other benefits based on what the employer has selected as options. we also sell group medicare advantage products through large employers. we use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, and employees to sell our group products. many of our larger employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products. underwriting beginning in 2014, the health care reform law requires all individual and group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments. accordingly, newly issued individual and group health plans are not subject to underwriting in 2014 and beyond. further, underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. prior to 2014, through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determined the risk we were willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups had to meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos. many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in item 1a. risk factors in this 2014 form 10-k. government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation's health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see item 1a. risk factors in this 2014 form 10-k. 15 table of contents certain other services captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers' compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service. employees as of december 31, 2014 , we had approximately 57,000 employees and approximately 2,700 additional medical professionals working under management agreements primarily between concentra and affiliated physician-owned associations. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, if we are unable to implement clinical initiatives to provide a better health care experience for our members, lower costs and appropriately document the risk profile of our members, or if our estimates of benefits expense are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefits expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. these estimates, however involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services; increased cost of such services; increased use or cost of prescription drugs, including specialty prescription drugs; the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including any that result from the health care reform law. key to our operational strategy is the implementation of clinical initiatives that we believe provide a better health care experience for our members, lower the cost of healthcare services delivered to our members, and appropriately document the risk profile of our members. our profitability and competitiveness depend in large part on our ability to appropriately manage health care costs through, among other things, the application of medical management programs such as our chronic care management program. in addition, we also estimate costs associated with long-duration insurance policies including long-term care, life insurance, annuities, and certain health and other supplemental insurance policies sold to individuals for which some 17 table of contents of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. at policy issuance, these future policy benefit reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, and maintenance expense assumptions. because these policies have long-term claim payout periods, there is a greater risk of significant variability in claims costs, either positive or negative. our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. the risk of a deviation of the actual interest, morbidity, mortality, and maintenance expense assumptions from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care insurance policies. we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care insurance policies, and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. however, to the extent premium rate increases or loss experience vary from the assumptions we have locked in, additional future adjustments to reserves could be required. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage our operating expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, additional investment in new products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs, state-based contracts, participation in health insurance exchanges, and expansion of clinical capabilities as part of our integrated care delivery model), investments in health and well-being product offerings, acquisitions, new taxes and assessments (including the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments under the health care reform law), and implementation of regulatory requirements may increase our operating expenses. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable, or effectively manage our operating expenses, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program or competitors in the delivery of health care services. we may also face increased competition due to participation by other insurers in the health insurance exchanges implemented under the health care reform law. we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform, and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. the policies and decisions of the federal and state governments regarding the medicare, military, medicaid and health insurance exchange programs in which we participate have a substantial impact on our profitability. these governmental policies and decisions, which we cannot predict with certainty, directly shape the premiums or other revenues to us under the programs, the eligibility and enrollment of our members, the services we provide to our members, and our administrative, health care services, and other costs associated with these programs. legislative or regulatory actions, such as those resulting in a reduction in premium payments to us, an increase in our cost of administrative and health care services, or additional fees, taxes or assessments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose membership with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership with unfavorable 18 table of contents medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our state-based contracts strategy, and our participation in the new health insurance exchanges, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in these products. our future performance depends in large part upon our ability to execute our strategy, including opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare programs, the successful implementation of our integrated care delivery model, our strategy with respect to state-based contracts, including those covering members dually eligible for the medicare and medicaid programs, and our participation in health insurance exchanges. we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. over the last few years we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we offer both stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plans with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer a medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare products is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare products in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in medicare products. there is significant concentration of our revenues in medicare products, with approximately 72% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2014 generated from our medicare products, in particular our contracts with cms in florida. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. the recently implemented health care reform law created a federal medicare-medicaid coordination office to serve dual eligibles. this medicare-medicaid coordination office has initiated a series of state demonstration projects to experiment with better coordination of care between medicare and medicaid. depending upon the results of those demonstration projects, cms may change the way in which dual eligibles are serviced. if we are unable to implement our strategic initiatives to address the dual eligibles opportunity, including our participation in state-based contracts, or if our initiatives are not successful at attracting or retaining dual eligible members, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial products, including participation in the new health insurance exchanges, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including humanavitality and other wellness products, growth of our specialty products such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, the adoption of new technologies, development of adjacent businesses, and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including implementing our integrated care delivery model, that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have reduced the number of systems we operate, have 19 table of contents upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. there can be no assurance that our information technology, or it, process will successfully improve existing systems, develop new systems to support our expanding operations, integrate new systems, protect our proprietary information, defend against cybersecurity attacks, or improve service levels. in addition, there can be no assurance that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we are unable to defend our information technology security systems against cybersecurity attacks or prevent other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or in the unintended dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could be exposed to significant regulatory fines or penalties, liability or reputational damage, or experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or a third-party. a cybersecurity attack may penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, cause shutdowns, or deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our systems. a cybersecurity attack that bypasses our it security systems successfully could materially affect us due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property, operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our it systems, or negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our members, customers, providers, and other stakeholders. the costs to eliminate or address cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities before or after an incident could be substantial. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential members. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information about us or our members or other third-parties, could expose our members' private information and result in the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in significant regulatory fines or penalties, litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. 20 table of contents our business may be materially adversely impacted by the adoption of a new coding set for diagnoses. federal regulations related to the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended (hipaa), contain minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets, and for the privacy and security of protected health information. icd-9, the current system of assigning codes to diagnoses and procedures associated with hospital utilization in the united states, was scheduled to be replaced by icd-10 code sets on october 1, 2014. however, on april 1, 2014, the protecting access to medicare act of 2014 was signed into law, delaying implementation of icd-10 until at least october 1, 2015. for dates of service on or after the date of final implementation, health plans and providers will be required to use icd-10 codes for such diagnoses and procedures. while we have prepared for the transition to icd-10, if unforeseen circumstances arise, it is possible that we could be exposed to investigations and allegations of noncompliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, if some providers continue to use icd-9 codes on claims after the final implementation date, including providers in our network who are employees, we will have to reject such claims, which may lead to claim resubmissions, increased call volume and provider and customer dissatisfaction. further, providers may use icd-10 codes differently than they used icd-9 codes in the past, which could result in lost revenues under risk adjustment. during the transition to icd-10, certain claims processing and payment information we have historically used to establish our reserves may not be reliable or available in a timely manner. if we do not adequately implement the new icd-10 coding set, or if providers in our network do not adequately transition to the new icd-10 coding set, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. we are involved in various legal actions and governmental and internal investigations, any of which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages or changes in our business practices. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are or may become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including breach of contract actions, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, securities laws claims, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management, and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers' alleged malpractice; claims arising from any adverse medical consequences resulting from our recommendations about the appropriateness of providers' proposed medical treatment plans for patients; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation or non-acceptance or termination of provider contracts or provider contract disputes relating to rate adjustments resulting from the balance budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985, as amended (commonly referred to as sequestration ); disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that we, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government including, among other allegations, resulting from coding and review practices under the medicare risk-adjustment model; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; 21 table of contents claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy; and professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may materially adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services or otherwise change our business practices, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see "legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters" in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these matters with certainty. as a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. these programs accounted for approximately 76% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2014. these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2014, under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 542,400 individual medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 15% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2014. the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2014, our military services business primarily consisted of the tricare south region contract which covers approximately 3,090,400 beneficiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2014, premiums and services revenue associated with the tricare south region contract accounted for approximately 1% of our total premiums and services revenue. on april 1, 2012, we began delivering services under the current tricare south region contract that the defense health agency, or dha (formerly known as the tricare management activity), awarded to us on february 25, 2011. the current 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2017, is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year during its term at the government's option. on january 27, 2015, we received notice from the dha of its intent to exercise its option to extend the tricare south region contract through march 31, 2016. the loss of the tricare south region contract, should it occur, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the 22 table of contents performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. as a government contractor, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that the government contractor submitted false claims to the government. litigation of this nature is filed under seal to allow the government an opportunity to investigate and to decide if it wishes to intervene and assume control of the litigation. if the government does not intervene, the lawsuit is unsealed, and the individual may continue to prosecute the action on his or her own. cms uses a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare advantage, or ma, plans according to health severity. the risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. under this model, rates paid to ma plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process that bases our prospective payments on a comparison of our beneficiaries' risk scores, derived from medical diagnoses, to those enrolled in the government's traditional fee-for-service medicare program (referred to as medicare ffs ). under the risk-adjustment methodology, all ma plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to ma plans. we generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to cms as the basis for our payment received from cms under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. we also rely on providers to appropriately document all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. in addition, we conduct medical record reviews, as part of our data and payment accuracy compliance efforts, to more accurately reflect diagnosis conditions under the risk adjustment model. these compliance efforts include the internal contract level audits described in more detail below. cms is continuing to perform audits of various companies' selected ma contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. these audits are referred to herein as risk-adjustment data validation audits, or radv audits. radv audits review medical records in an attempt to validate provider medical record documentation and coding practices which influence the calculation of premium payments to ma plans. in 2012, cms released a notice of final payment error calculation methodology for part c medicare advantage risk adjustment data validation (radv) contract-level audits. the payment error calculation methodology provides that, in calculating the economic impact of audit results for an ma contract, if any, the results of the audit sample will be extrapolated to the entire ma contract based upon a comparison to benchmark audit data in medicare ffs (which we refer to as the "ffs adjuster"). this comparison to the medicare ffs benchmark audit is necessary to determine the economic impact, if any, of audit results because the government program data set, including any attendant errors that are present in that data set, provides the basis for ma plans' risk adjustment to payment rates. cms already makes other adjustments to payment rates based on a comparison of coding pattern differences between ma plans and medicare ffs data (such as for frequency of coding for certain diagnoses in ma plan data versus the government program data set). the final methodology, including the first application of extrapolated audit results to determine audit settlements, is expected to be applied to the current round of radv contract level audits being conducted on 2011 premium payments. selected ma contracts will be notified of an audit at some point after the close of the final reconciliation for the payment year being audited. the final reconciliation occurs in august of the calendar year following the payment year. we have been notified that certain of our medicare advantage contracts have been selected for audit for contract year 2011. estimated audit settlements are recorded as a reduction of premiums revenue in our consolidated statements of income, based upon available information. we perform internal contract level audits based on the radv audit methodology prescribed by cms. included in these internal contract level audits is an audit of our private fee-for-service business which we used to represent a proxy of the benchmark audit data in medicare ffs which has not yet been released. we based our accrual of estimated audit settlements for contract years 2011 (the first year that application of extrapolated audit results is applicable) through 2014 on the results of these internal contract level audits and update our estimates as each audit is completed. estimates derived from these results were not material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. however, 23 table of contents as indicated, we are awaiting additional guidance from cms regarding the benchmark audit data in medicare ffs. accordingly, we cannot determine whether such radv audits will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, cms' recent comments in formalized guidance regarding overpayments to medicare advantage plans appear to be inconsistent with cms' prior radv audit guidance. these statements, contained in the preamble to cms' final rule release regarding medicare advantage and part d prescription drug benefit program regulations for contract year 2015, appear to equate each medicare advantage risk adjustment data error with an overpayment without reconciliation to the principles underlying the ffs adjuster referenced above. we will continue to work with cms to ensure that medicare advantage plans are paid accurately and that payment model principles are in accordance with the requirements of the social security act, which if not implemented correctly, could have material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members' prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premiums revenue related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net receivable of $69 million at december 31, 2014 . reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms's portion of claims costs which exceed the member's out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms's prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms's claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms's claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment which we would have otherwise received as a low-income subsidy or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms's share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. the budget control act of 2011, enacted on august 2, 2011, increased the united states debt ceiling conditioned on deficit reductions to be achieved over the next ten years. the budget control act of 2011 also established a twelve-member joint committee of congress known as the joint select committee on deficit reduction to propose legislation to reduce the united states federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. the failure of the joint select committee on deficit reduction to achieve a targeted deficit reduction by december 23, 2011 triggered an automatic reduction, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. these reductions took effect on april 1, 2013, and the bipartisan budget act of 2013, enacted on december 26, 2013, extended the reductions for 24 table of contents two years. we expect a corresponding substantial reduction in our obligations to providers. due to the uncertainty around the application of any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we can completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs applied by the budget control act of 2011. we are also subject to various other governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. the outcome of any current or future governmental or internal investigations cannot be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. nevertheless, it is reasonably possible that any such outcome of litigation, penalties, fines or other sanctions could be substantial, and the outcome of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. certain of these matters could also affect our reputation. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs by, among other things, requiring a minimum benefit ratio on insured products, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with a non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. the provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, imposing a significant new non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments on health insurers, limiting medicare advantage payment rates, stipulating a prescribed minimum ratio for the amount of premiums revenue to be expended on medical costs for insured products, additional mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, requirements that limit the ability of health plans to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, and heightened scrutiny by state and federal regulators of our business practices, including our medicare bid and pricing practices. the health care reform law also specifies benefit design guidelines, limits rating and pricing practices, encourages additional competition (including potential incentives for new market entrants), establishes federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges for individuals and small employers (with up to 100 employees) coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers (subject to federal administrative action), and expands eligibility for medicaid programs (subject to state-by-state implementation of this expansion). in addition, the health care reform law has increased and will continue to increase federal oversight of health plan premium rates and could adversely affect our ability to appropriately adjust health plan premiums on a timely basis. financing for these reforms will come, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us and other health plans and individuals which began in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. implementation dates of the provisions of the health care reform law began in september 2010 and continue through 2018. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health care reform law, our business may be materially adversely affected. for additional information, please refer to the section entitled, health care reform in item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in this annual report. 25 table of contents our participation in the new federal and state health insurance exchanges, which entail uncertainties associated with mix, volume of business and the operation of premium stabilization programs, which are subject to federal administrative action, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the health care reform law required the establishment of health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers to purchase health insurance that became effective january 1, 2014, with an annual open enrollment period. insurers participating on the health insurance exchanges must offer a minimum level of benefits and are subject to guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. we may be adversely selected by individuals who have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants in this market. in addition, the risk corridor, reinsurance, and risk adjustment provisions of the health care reform law, established to apportion risk for insurers, may not be effective in appropriately mitigating the financial risks related to our products. in addition, regulatory changes to the implementation of the health care reform law that allowed individuals to remain in plans that are not compliant with the health care reform law may have an adverse effect on our pool of participants in the health insurance exchange. all of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows if our premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions used in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application, including reductions in medicare advantage payment rates, could increase our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition to the health care reform law, the health care industry in general and health insurance are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation: health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (hitech act) the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers, and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans and providers). the hitech act, one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, significantly broadened the scope of the privacy and security regulations of hipaa. on january 17, 2013, hhs issued the omnibus final rule on hipaa privacy, security, breach notification requirements and enforcement requirements under the hitech act, and a final regulation for required changes to the hipaa privacy rule for the genetic information nondiscrimination act, or gina. the omnibus final rule became effective on march 26, 2013, with a compliance date of september 23, 2013. among other requirements, the hitech act and omnibus final rule mandates individual notification in the event of a breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information, provides enhanced penalties for hipaa violations, requires business associates to comply with certain provisions of the hipaa privacy and security rule, and grants enforcement authority to state attorneys general in addition to the hhs office of civil rights. 26 table of contents in addition, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. state statutes and regulations vary from state to state and could impose additional penalties. violations of hipaa or applicable federal or state laws or regulations could subject us to significant criminal or civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa and other privacy regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to the u.s. department of health and human services in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business associates to comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa's provisions and requires the u.s. department of health and human services to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. corporate practice of medicine and other laws as a corporate entity, humana inc. is not licensed to practice medicine. many states in which we operate through our subsidiaries limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. under management agreements between certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed healthcare providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. we believe that our health services operations comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, and similar issues. however, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these statutes, which could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. anti-kickback, physician self-referral, and other fraud and abuse laws a federal law commonly referred to as the anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of medicare or other governmental health program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease, or order of items or services that are covered by medicare or other federal governmental health programs. because the prohibitions contained in the anti-kickback statute apply to the furnishing of items or services for which payment is made in whole or in part, the anti-kickback statute could be implicated if any portion of an item or service we provide is covered by any of the state or federal health benefit programs described above. violation of these provisions constitutes a felony criminal offense and applicable sanctions could include exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. section 1877 of the social security act, commonly known as the stark law, prohibits physicians, subject to certain exceptions described below, from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity providing designated health services in which the physician, or an immediate family member, has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has entered into a compensation arrangement. these prohibitions, contained in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1993, commonly known as stark ii, amended prior federal physician self-referral legislation known as stark i by expanding the list of designated health services 27 table of contents to a total of 11 categories of health services. the professional groups with which we are affiliated provide one or more of these designated health services. persons or entities found to be in violation of the stark law are subject to denial of payment for services furnished pursuant to an improper referral, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. many states also have enacted laws similar in scope and purpose to the anti-kickback statute and, in more limited instances, the stark law, that are not limited to services for which medicare or medicaid payment is made. in addition, most states have statutes, regulations, or professional codes that restrict a physician from accepting various kinds of remuneration in exchange for making referrals. these laws vary from state to state and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. in states that have enacted these statutes, we believe that regulatory authorities and state courts interpreting these statutes may regard federal law under the anti-kickback statute and the stark law as persuasive. we believe that our operations comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, and similar federal or state laws addressing fraud and abuse. these laws are subject to modification and changes in interpretation, and are enforced by authorities vested with broad discretion. we continually monitor developments in this area. if these laws are interpreted in a manner contrary to our interpretation or are reinterpreted or amended, or if new legislation is enacted with respect to healthcare fraud and abuse, illegal remuneration, or similar issues, we may be required to restructure our affected operations to maintain compliance with applicable law. there can be no assurances that any such restructuring will be possible or, if possible, would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. environmental we are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment. if an environmental regulatory agency finds any of our facilities to be in violation of environmental laws, penalties and fines may be imposed for each day of violation and the affected facility could be forced to cease operations. we could also incur other significant costs, such as cleanup costs or claims by third parties, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. although we believe that our environmental practices, including waste handling and disposal practices, are in material compliance with applicable laws, future claims or violations, or changes in environmental laws, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. state regulation of insurance-related products laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate increases, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed insurance subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue our acquisition 28 table of contents strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, transactions outside of our core business space, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. the failure to successfully integrate acquired entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of our acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. in addition, from time to time, we evaluate alternatives for our businesses that do not meet our strategic, growth or profitability objectives. among the businesses that we are currently evaluating is our closed block of long-term care insurance policies business. while no decision has been made with respect to any course of action, if we were to divest this business it is reasonably likely that we would have to recognize a material loss that will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the divestiture of certain other businesses could also result, individually or in the aggregate, in the recognition of material losses and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such divestitures on terms favorable to us. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we employ or contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. a key component of our integrated care delivery strategy is to increase the number of providers who share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations, or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate unfavorable contracts with us or place us at a competitive disadvantage, or do not enter into contracts with us that encourage the delivery of quality medical services in a cost-effective manner, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care providers for an actuarially determined, fixed fee per month to provide a basket of required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our pharmacy mail order business competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, internet companies and other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally 29 table of contents regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state's board of pharmacy. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations, requiring registration with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-order pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose us to civil and criminal penalties. changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. it is uncertain whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. regulators have conducted investigations into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our mail-order pharmacy business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our mail-order and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from certain of our licensed subsidiaries is restricted by state insurance regulations. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. certain of our insurance subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, administrative expense reimbursements or other cash transfers to humana inc., and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these insurance subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, or ordinary dividends, is limited based on the entity's level of 30 table of contents statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. dividends from our non-insurance companies such as in our healthcare services segment are generally not restricted by departments of insurance. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. in addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would increase, our sales and earnings could decrease, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. 31 table of contents we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, acquisitions, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months, as well as to refinance or repay debt, and repurchase shares. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. prior to 2009, under interest rate swap agreements, we exchanged the fixed interest rate under all of our senior notes for a variable interest rate based on libor using interest rate swap agreements. we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements in 2008. we may re-enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either libor plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2014 or december 31, 2013 . interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with a weighted average s&amp;p credit rating of aa- at december 31, 2014 . our net unrealized position increased $225 million from a net unrealized gain position of $250 million at december 31, 2013 to a net unrealized gain position of $475 million at december 31, 2014 . at december 31, 2014 , we had gross unrealized losses of $41 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates in the current markets than when the securities were purchased, and as such, there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2014. while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio's cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 4.1 years as of december 31, 2014 and 4.3 years as of december 31, 2013 . based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $466 million . we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200, and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2014 and 2013 . our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may affect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points once , have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points three times, and have changed by less than 100 basis points six times. 78 table of contents increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in millions) as of december 31, 2014 investment income (a) $ (20 ) $ (15 ) $ (9 ) $ 42 $ 85 $ 128 interest expense (b) pretax $ (20 ) $ (15 ) $ (9 ) $ 42 $ 85 $ 128 as of december 31, 2013 investment income (a) $ (24 ) $ (16 ) $ (8 ) $ 26 $ 52 $ 79 interest expense (b) pretax $ (24 ) $ (16 ) $ (8 ) $ 26 $ 52 $ 79 (a) as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , some of our investments had interest rates below 3% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 3% point reduction. (b) the interest rate under our senior notes is fixed. there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2014 or december 31, 2013 or under our commercial paper program (commenced in october 2014) at december 31, 2014 . 79 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors in this 2015 form 10-k for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. aetna merger on july 2, 2015, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, which we refer to in this report as the merger agreement, with aetna inc. and certain wholly owned subsidiaries of aetna inc., which we refer to collectively as aetna, which sets forth the terms and conditions under which we will merge with, and become a wholly owned subsidiary of aetna, a transaction we refer to in this report as the merger. under the terms of the merger agreement, at the closing of the merger, each outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive (i) 0.8375 of a share of aetna common stock and (ii) $125 in cash. the total transaction was estimated at approximately $37 billion including the assumption of humana debt, based on the closing price of aetna common shares on july 2, 2015. the merger agreement includes customary restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the merger, 3 generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of customary specified limitations absent aetna's prior written consent, including, for example, limitations on dividends (we agreed that our quarterly dividend will not exceed $0.29 per share) and repurchases of our securities (we agreed to suspend our share repurchase program), restrictions on our ability to enter into material contracts, and negotiated thresholds for capital expenditures, capital contributions, acquisitions and divestitures of businesses. on october 19, 2015, our stockholders approved the adoption of the merger agreement at a special stockholder meeting. also on october 19, 2015, the holders of aetna outstanding shares approved the issuance of aetna common stock in the merger at a special meeting of aetna shareholders. the merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among other things, (i) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, and the receipt of necessary approvals under state insurance and healthcare laws and regulations and pursuant to certain licenses of certain of humana's subsidiaries, (ii) the absence of legal restraints and prohibitions on the consummation of the merger, (iii) listing of the aetna common stock to be issued in the merger on the new york stock exchange, (iv) subject to the relevant standards set forth in the merger agreement, the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by each party, (v) material compliance by each party with its covenants in the merger agreement, and (vi) no company material adverse effect with respect to us and no parent material adverse effect with respect to aetna, in each case since the execution of and as defined in the merger agreement. in addition, aetna's obligation to consummate the merger is subject to (a) the condition that the required regulatory approvals do not impose any condition that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a regulatory material adverse effect (as such term is defined in the merger agreement), and (b) cms has not imposed any sanctions with respect to our medicare advantage, or ma, business that, individually or in the aggregate, is or would reasonably be expected to be material and adverse to us and our subsidiaries, taken as a whole. the merger is currently expected to close in the second half of 2016. health care reform the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. certain significant provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to medicare advantage premiums, the establishment of federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, and the introduction of plan designs based on set actuarial values. in addition, the health care reform law established insurance industry assessments, including an annual health insurance industry fee and a three-year industry wide commercial reinsurance fee. the health care reform law is discussed more fully in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled health care reform in this 2015 form 10-k. business segments on january 1, 2015, we realigned certain of our businesses among our reportable segments to correspond with internal management reporting changes and renamed our employer group segment to the group segment. our three reportable segments remain retail, group, and healthcare services. the more significant realignments included reclassifying medicare benefits offered to groups to the retail segment from the group segment, bringing all of our medicare offerings, which are now managed collectively, together in one segment, recognizing that in some instances we market directly to individuals that are part of a group medicare account. in addition, we realigned our military services business, primarily consisting of our tricare south region contract previously included in the other businesses category, to our group segment as we consider this contract with the government to be a group account. prior period segment financial information has been recast to conform to the 2015 presentation. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this 2015 form 10-k for segment financial information. 4 we manage our business with three reportable segments: retail, group, and healthcare services. in addition, the other businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles. these segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer to assess performance and allocate resources. our products our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. these products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. health maintenance organizations, or hmos, generally require a referral from the member's primary care provider before seeing certain specialty physicians. preferred provider organizations, or ppos, provide members the freedom to choose a health care provider without requiring a referral. however ppos generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider's fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the ppo's network. point of service, or pos, plans combine the advantages of hmo plans with the flexibility of ppo plans. in general, pos plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan's network or outside the network. in addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy solutions, provider, home based, and clinical programs, as well as services and capabilities to advance population health. at the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. three core elements of the model are to improve the consumer experience by simplifying the interaction with us, engaging members in clinical programs, and offering assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused. the model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. the discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. our retail segment products this segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the retail segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2015 : retail segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: individual medicare advantage $ 29,526 54.9 % group medicare advantage 5,588 10.4 % medicare stand-alone pdp 3,846 7.1 % total medicare 38,960 72.4 % individual commercial 4,243 7.9 % state-based medicaid 2,341 4.3 % individual specialty 261 0.5 % total premiums 45,805 85.1 % services 9 % total premiums and services revenue $ 45,814 85.1 % 5 medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 30 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. we have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. we believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional fee-for-service medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as medicare ffs. as an alternative to medicare ffs, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under medicare ffs. our medicare advantage plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. individual medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, chronic care management, and care coordination, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of medicare ffs, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. most of our medicare pffs plans are network-based products with in and out of network benefits due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. in these areas, we offer medicare pffs plans that have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to medicare ffs payment rates. 6 cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms's risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. at december 31, 2015 , we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 2,753,400 individual medicare advantage members, including approximately 587,400 members in florida. these florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $7.8 billion , which represented approximately 26.3% of our individual medicare advantage premiums revenue, or 14.5% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2015 . our hmo, ppo, and pffs products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage products have been renewed for 2016 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2016 have been approved. individual medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d, including a pdp offering co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., or the humana-walmart plan. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our pdp bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled medicare part d provisions. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp products have been renewed for 2016 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2016 have been approved. we have administered cms's limited income newly eligible transition, or li-net, prescription drug plan program since 2010. this program allows individuals who receive medicare's low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a medicare part d plan. cms temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both medicare and medicaid into the li-net prescription drug plan program, and subsequently transitions each member into a medicare part d plan that may or may not be a humana medicare plan. group medicare advantage and medicare stand-alone pdp we offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace medicare wrap or medicare supplement products with medicare advantage or stand-alone pdps from humana. these products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an employer's post-retirement benefit structure. 7 state-based medicaid contracts our state-based contracts allow us to serve members enrolled in state-based medicaid programs including temporary assistance to needy families, or tanf, long-term support services, or ltss, and dual eligible demonstration programs. tanf is a state and federally funded program that provides cash assistance and supportive services to assist families with children under age 18, helping them achieve economic self-sufficiency. ltss is a state and federally funded program that offers states a broad and flexible set of program design options and refers to the delivery of long-term support services for our members who receive home and community or institution-based services for long-term care. our american eldercare inc., or american eldercare, acquisition in 2013 expanded our ltss footprint in florida. our contracts are generally for three to five year terms. medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. the dual eligible population represents a disproportionate share of medicaid and medicare costs. there were approximately 10.2 million dual eligible individuals in the united states in 2015 , trending upward due to medicaid eligibility expansions and individuals aging into the medicare program. since the enactment of the health care reform law, states are pursuing stand-alone dual eligible cms demonstration programs in which medicare, medicaid, and ltss benefits are more tightly integrated. eligibility for participation in these stand-alone dual eligible demonstration programs may require state-based contractual relationships in existing medicaid programs. we have contracts to serve medicaid eligible members in florida under the tanf and ltss programs. our contracts in virginia and illinois serve members under each state's stand-alone dual eligible demonstration program. in addition, in illinois we have an integrated care program, or icp, medicaid contract. our kentucky medicaid contract is subject to a 100% coinsurance contract with caresource management group company, ceding all the risk to caresource. in addition to the dual eligible members we serve under the virginia and illinois demonstration program, we serve other dual eligible members enrolled in our medicare advantage and stand-alone prescription drug plans. as of december 31, 2015 , we served approximately 440,000 dual eligible members in our medicare advantage plans and approximately 1,070,000 dual eligible members in our stand-alone prescription drug plans. individual commercial coverage our individual health plans are marketed under the humanaone brand. we offer products both on and off of the public exchange. we offer products on exchanges where we can achieve an affordable cost of care, including hmo offerings and select networks in most markets. our off-exchange products are primarily ppo and pos offerings, including plans issued prior to 2014 that were previously underwritten. policies issued prior to the enactment of the health care reform law on march 23, 2010 are grandfathered policies. grandfathered policies are exempt from most of the requirements of the health care reform law, including mandated benefits. however, our grandfathered plans include provisions that guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the plan is continued and the individual chooses to renew. policies issued between march 23, 2010 and december 31, 2013 are required to conform to the health care reform law, including mandated benefits, upon renewal at various transition dates between 2016 and 2017 depending on the state. prior to 2014, our humanaone plans primarily were offered as ppo plans where we could generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. rewards-based wellness programs are included with many individual products. we also offer optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a portfolio of financial protection products. 8 group segment products this segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including medical and supplemental benefit plans as well as health and wellness products as described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the group segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2015 : group segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) external revenue: premiums: fully-insured commercial group $ 5,493 10.2 % group specialty 1,055 2.0 % military services 21 % total premiums 6,569 12.2 % services 698 1.3 % total premiums and services revenue $ 7,267 13.5 % intersegment services revenue: wellness $ 93 n/a total intersegment services revenue $ 93 n/a not applicable group commercial coverage our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through hmo, ppo, or pos plans, or self-funded basis. our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government's health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. as with our individual commercial products, the employer group offerings include humanavitality , our wellness and loyalty reward program. our administrative services only, or aso, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured hmo, ppo, or pos products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, more than half of our aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. as with individual commercial policies, employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a portfolio of voluntary benefit products. military services under our tricare south region contract with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the dod. on april 1, 2012, we began delivering services under our current tricare south region contract that the defense health agency, or dha (formerly known as the tricare management activity), awarded to us on february 25, 2011. under the current contract, we provide administrative services while the federal government 9 retains all of the risk of the cost of health benefits. accordingly, we account for revenues under the current contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. wellness we offer wellness solutions including our humana vitality wellness and loyalty rewards program, health coaching, and clinical programs. these programs, when offered collectively to employer customers as our total health product, turn any standard plan of the employer's choosing into an integrated health and well-being solution that encourages participation in these programs. our humana vitality program provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual's needs and wants. a key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an incentive program. we also provide employee assistance programs and coaching services including a comprehensive turn-key coaching program, an enhancement to a medically based coaching protocol and a platform that makes coaching programs more efficient. our healthcare services segment products the products offered by our healthcare services segment are key to our integrated care delivery model. this segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that offer services including pharmacy solutions, provider services, home based services, clinical programs, and predictive modeling and informatics services to other humana businesses, as well as external health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. our intersegment revenue is described in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. the following table presents our services revenue for the healthcare services segment by line of business for the year ended december 31, 2015 : healthcare services segment services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) intersegment revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 20,551 n/a provider services 1,291 n/a home based services 875 n/a clinical programs 203 n/a total intersegment revenue $ 22,920 external services revenue: provider services $ 515 0.9 % home based services 140 0.3 % pharmacy solutions 30 0.1 % total external services revenue $ 685 1.3 % n/a not applicable pharmacy solutions humana pharmacy solutions , or hps, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. hps also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through humana pharmacy, inc., as well as research services. 10 provider services we operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers, primarily in florida, staffed by primary care providers and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry. we also operate transcend, a medical services organization, or mso, that coordinates medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries primarily in florida, arkansas, alabama and kansas. transcend provides resources in care coordination, financial risk management, clinical integration and patient engagement that help physicians improve the patient experience as well as care outcomes. transcend collaborates with physicians, medical groups and integrated delivery systems to successfully transition to value-based care by engaging, partnering and offering practical services and solutions. transcend represents a key component of our integrated care delivery model which we believe is scalable to new markets. in addition, we own a noncontrolling equity interest in mcci holdings, llc, a privately held mso headquartered in miami, florida, that primarily coordinates medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries in florida, texas and georgia. programs to enhance the quality of care for members are key elements of our integrated care delivery model. we believe that technology represents a significant opportunity in health care that positively impacts our members. our transcend insights business focuses on population health and wellness capabilities across the sector and serves health care systems, physicians and care teams by leveraging actionable data to help improve patient care. we help care teams and patients transition from a reactive approach to care to one that proactively promotes health and long-term wellness. we have enhanced our health information technology capabilities enabling us to create a more complete view of an individual's health, designed to connect, coordinate and simplify health care while reducing costs. these capabilities include our health care analytics engine, which reviews billions of clinical data points on millions of patients each day to provide members, providers, and payers real-time clinical insights to identify evidence-based gaps-in-care, drug safety alerts and other critical health concerns to improve outcomes. additionally, our technology connects humana and disparate electronic health record systems to enable the exchange of essential health information in real-time to provide physicians and care teams with a single, comprehensive patient view. on june 1, 2015, we completed the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary, concentra inc., or concentra, that delivered occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness services to employees and the general public through its operation of medical centers and worksite medical facilities. home based services via in-home care, telephonic health counseling/coaching, and remote monitoring, we are actively involved in the care management of our customers with the greatest needs. home based services include the operations of humana at home, inc., or humana at home . as a chronic-care provider of in-home care for seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. we focus our deployment of these services in geographies, such as florida, with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions. the clinical support and care provided by humana at home is designed to improve health outcomes and result in a higher number of days members can spend at their homes instead of in an acute care facility. to that end, we have accelerated our process for identifying and reaching out to members in need of clinical intervention. at december 31, 2015 , we enrolled approximately 590,300 members with complex chronic conditions in the humana chronic care program, a 40.3% increase compared with approximately 420,700 members at december 31, 2014 , reflecting enhanced predictive modeling capabilities and focus on proactive clinical outreach and member engagement, particularly for our medicare advantage membership. we believe these initiatives lead to better health outcomes for our members and lower health care costs. clinical programs we are committed to the integrated physical and mental health of our members. accordingly, we take a holistic approach to healthcare, offering care management, behavioral health services and wellness programs. 11 our care management programs take full advantage of the population health, wellness and clinical applications offered by transcend insights and carehub, our clinical management tool used by providers and care managers across the company to help our members achieve their best health, to offer various levels of support, matching the intensity of the support to the needs of members with ongoing health challenges through telephonic and onsite programs. these programs include personal nurse, chronic condition management, and case management as well as programs supporting maternity, cancer, neonatal intensive care unit, and transplant services. in addition, we focus on the behavioral aspects of a members' health such as managing stress and work/life balance. humana behavioral health takes a holistic, mind-and-body approach to behavioral healthcare to address the whole person, encouraging faster recovery and improving clinical outcomes while reducing costs for both the member and employer. other businesses other businesses primarily includes our closed block of long-term care insurance policies described below. total premiums and services revenue for our other businesses was $49 million , or 0.1% of consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2015 . we have a non-strategic closed block of approximately 31,800 long-term care insurance policies associated with our acquisition of kmg america corporation in 2007. long-term care insurance policies are intended to protect the insured from the cost of long-term care services including those provided by nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and adult day care as well as home health care services. no new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2015 , by market and product: retail segment group segment (in thousands) individual medicare advantage group medicare advantage medicare stand- alone pdp individual commercial state- based contracts fully- insured commercial group aso military services other businesses total percent of total florida 587.4 19.9 320.5 288.4 351.9 168.4 33.8 1,770.3 12.5 % texas 215.6 68.8 281.4 163.8 217.3 107.2 1,054.1 7.4 % georgia 105.2 2.5 115.0 270.2 155.3 18.6 666.8 4.7 % kentucky 69.9 56.1 203.8 17.6 109.3 195.5 652.2 4.6 % ohio 105.8 155.6 143.5 20.8 46.3 70.1 542.1 3.8 % california 64.9 0.1 420.7 13.3 499.0 3.5 % illinois 81.7 20.8 154.1 11.3 12.0 82.4 95.0 457.3 3.2 % missouri/kansas 100.6 3.4 202.0 18.7 52.9 9.4 387.0 2.7 % tennessee 139.8 2.0 97.5 26.5 47.0 34.9 347.7 2.5 % wisconsin 63.2 10.1 95.8 8.5 84.2 80.1 341.9 2.4 % louisiana 147.2 10.9 54.4 20.6 67.9 31.7 332.7 2.3 % north carolina 129.4 37.2 158.4 5.6 330.6 2.3 % indiana 88.1 3.7 120.2 12.1 22.4 17.2 263.7 1.9 % virginia 111.2 5.5 125.5 8.9 9.8 260.9 1.8 % michigan 48.8 14.1 135.8 19.4 6.5 0.5 225.1 1.6 % colorado 35.2 5.5 83.3 22.7 24.8 1.1 172.6 1.2 % arizona 57.8 1.2 75.3 8.4 28.4 1.2 172.3 1.2 % military services 3,074.4 3,074.4 21.6 % others 601.6 66.7 1,770.7 120.9 65.2 14.4 32.6 2,672.1 18.8 % totals 2,753.4 484.1 4,557.9 1,057.7 373.7 1,178.3 710.7 3,074.4 32.6 14,222.8 100.0 % 12 provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we employ or with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into various care management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. we have available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. we also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. the terms of our contracts with hospitals and physicians may also vary between medicare and commercial business. a significant portion of our medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to medicare reimbursement levels and methodologies. automatic reductions to the federal budget, known as sequestration, took effect on april 1, 2013, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year. due to the uncertainty around the application of these reductions, there can be no assurances that we can completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs. see legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. capitation we offer providers a continuum of opportunities to increase the integration of care and offer assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. these include performance bonuses, shared savings and shared risk relationships. for some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership, primarily hmo membership. under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per 13 member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated member. we believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery model at the core of our strategy. our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries. at december 31, 2015 , approximately 1,100,000 members, or 7.7% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts, including 863,000 individual medicare advantage members, or 31.3% of our total individual medicare advantage membership. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician's financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we typically process all claims and monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we delegated claim processing functions under capitation arrangements covering approximately 196,600 hmo members, including 172,000 individual medicare advantage members, or 19.9% of the 863,000 individual medicare advantage members covered under risk-based contracts at december 31, 2015 , with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating the members' health care benefits. capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the underlying claims experience was approximately $768 million , or 1.7% of total benefits expense, for the year ended december 31, 2015 . we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. providers participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses, review of their malpractice liability claims histories, review of their board certifications, if applicable, and review of applicable quality information. a committee, composed of a peer group of providers, reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care, and urac. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. additionally, all products sold on the federal and state marketplaces are required to be accredited. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa reviews our compliance based on standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in most of our commercial, medicare and medicaid hmo/pos markets with enough history and membership, and for many of our ppo markets. 14 sales and marketing we use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 1,600 sales representatives, as well as approximately 1,400 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products in our retail segment, including making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we have a marketing arrangement with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart, for our individual medicare stand-alone pdp offering. we also sell group medicare advantage products through large employers. in addition, we market our medicare and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products through licensed independent brokers and agents. for our medicare products, commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure, regulated in structure and amount by cms. for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products, we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. in our group segment, individuals may become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer's or group's exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. in addition, we have begun to offer plans to employer groups through private exchanges. employers can give their employees a set amount of money and then direct them to a private exchange. there, employees can shop for a health plan and other benefits based on what the employer has selected as options. we use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, and employees to sell our group products. many of our larger employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products. underwriting beginning in 2014, the health care reform law requires all individual and certain group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments. accordingly, newly issued individual and certain group health plans are not subject to underwriting in 2014 and beyond. further, underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. prior to 2014, through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determined the risk we were willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups had to meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos. many of our competitors have a larger membership base and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in item 1a. risk factors in this 2015 form 10-k. 15 government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation's health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see item 1a. risk factors in this 2015 form 10-k. certain other services captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers' compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service. through intercompany service agreements approved, if required, by state regulatory authorities, humana inc., our parent company, charges a management fee for reimbursement of certain centralized services provided to its subsidiaries. employees as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately 50,100 employees and approximately 1,600 additional medical professionals working under management agreements primarily between us and affiliated physician-owned associations. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 16 item 1a. risk factors risks relating to the merger with aetna the merger with aetna is subject to various closing conditions, including governmental and regulatory approvals as well as other uncertainties and there can be no assurances as to whether and when it may be completed. on july 2, 2015, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger (which we refer to as the merger agreement ), with aetna inc. (or aetna ), echo merger sub, inc. (or sub 1 ) and echo merger sub, llc (or sub 2 ), each a wholly owned subsidiary of aetna. under the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, sub 1 will merge with and into us (the merger ). in the merger, each outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive (i) 0.8375 of a share of aetna common stock and (ii) $125 in cash without interest, subject to any required withholding taxes. immediately after the merger, we (as the surviving corporation in the merger) will be merged with and into sub 2, with sub 2 remaining as the surviving entity of that merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of aetna, to be renamed humana llc. the merger is expected to close in the second half of 2016. on october 19, 2015, at separate meetings, our stockholders approved the adoption of the merger agreement, and aetna's shareholders approved the issuance of aetna common stock in the merger. consummation of the merger remains subject to other customary closing conditions, however, a number of which are not within our or aetna's control, and it is possible that such conditions may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the completion of the merger. these conditions include, among other things, (i) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, and the receipt of necessary approvals under state insurance and healthcare laws and regulations and pursuant to certain licenses of certain of humana's subsidiaries, (ii) the absence of legal restraints and prohibitions on the consummation of the merger, (iii) listing of the aetna common stock to be issued in the merger on the new york stock exchange, (iv) subject to the relevant standards set forth in the merger agreement, the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by each party, (v) material compliance by each party with its covenants in the merger agreement, and (vi) no company material adverse effect with respect to us and no parent material adverse effect with respect to aetna, in each case since the execution of and as defined in the merger agreement. in addition, aetna's obligation to consummate the merger is subject to (a) the condition that the required regulatory approvals do not impose any condition that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a regulatory material adverse effect (as such term is defined in the merger agreement), and (b) cms has not imposed any sanctions with respect to our medicare advantage business that, individually or in the aggregate, is or would reasonably be expected to be material and adverse to us and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. we cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of the required closing conditions will be satisfied or if another uncertainty may arise. if the merger does not receive, or timely receive, the required regulatory approvals and clearances, or if any regulatory agencies impose certain conditions relating to the required regulatory approvals that would reasonably be expected to have a "regulatory material adverse effect", or if an event occurs that delays or prevents the merger, such failure or delay to complete the merger may cause uncertainty or other negative consequences that may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and the price per share for our common stock. the merger agreement prohibits us from pursuing alternative transactions to the merger. following the receipt of approval by our stockholders and aetna's shareholders (with respect to the aetna stock to be issued in the transaction) on october 19, 2015, the merger agreement is binding on the parties, subject to customary closing conditions. the merger agreement prohibits us from initiating, soliciting, knowingly encouraging, knowingly facilitating or entering into discussions or negotiations with any third party regarding alternative acquisition proposals. this provision prevents us from affirmatively seeking offers from other possible acquirers that may be superior to the pending merger. we do not have the ability to terminate the merger agreement in order to accept a superior proposal since our stockholders have voted to approve the adoption of the merger agreement. 17 the number of shares of aetna common stock that our stockholders will receive in the merger is based on a fixed exchange ratio. because the market price of aetna's common stock will fluctuate, our stockholders cannot be certain of the value of the portion of the merger consideration to be paid in aetna common stock. upon completion of the merger, each outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive (i) 0.8375 of a share of aetna common stock and (ii) $125 in cash without interest, subject to any required withholding taxes. the exchange ratio for determining the number of shares of aetna common stock that our stockholders will receive in the merger is fixed and will not be adjusted for changes in the market price of aetna's common stock, which will likely fluctuate before and after the completion of the merger. fluctuations in the value of aetna's common stock could result from changes in the business, operations or prospects of aetna prior to or following the closing of the merger, regulatory considerations, general market and economic conditions and other factors both within and beyond the control of us or aetna. while the merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows or result in a loss of employees, customers, members or suppliers. the merger agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion or termination of the merger, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent aetna's prior written consent. we may find that these and other contractual restrictions in the merger agreement may delay or prevent us from responding, or limit our ability to respond, effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future business opportunities that may arise during such period, even if our management believes they may be advisable. the pendency of the merger may also divert management's attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations. our employees, customers, members and suppliers may experience uncertainties about the effects of the merger. in connection with the pending merger, it is possible that some customers, members, suppliers and other parties with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the merger. similarly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following completion of the merger, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. if any of these effects were to occur, it could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and the price per share for our common stock. failure to consummate the merger could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and the price per share for our common stock. if the merger is not consummated, our ongoing businesses may be materially and adversely affected and, we will not have realized any of the potential benefits of having consummated the transaction, and we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: matters relating to the merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us; the merger agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion or termination of the merger, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent aetna's prior written consent. we may find that these and other contractual restrictions in the merger agreement may delay or prevent us from responding, or limit our ability to respond, effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future business opportunities that may arise during such period, even if our management believes they may be advisable. the pendency of the merger may also divert management's attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations; we may be required to pay a termination fee to aetna and would have incurred expenses relating to the merger; and 18 we also could be subject to litigation related to our failure to consummate the merger or to perform our obligations under the merger agreement. if the merger is not consummated, these risks may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and the price per share for our common stock. risks relating to our business if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, if we are unable to implement clinical initiatives to provide a better health care experience for our members, lower costs and appropriately document the risk profile of our members, or if our estimates of benefits expense are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefits expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. we continually review these estimates, however these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. any reserve, including a premium deficiency reserve, may be insufficient. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves, including premium deficiency reserves where appropriate. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services; increased cost of such services; increased use or cost of prescription drugs, including specialty prescription drugs; the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including any that result from the health care reform law. 19 key to our operational strategy is the implementation of clinical initiatives that we believe provide a better health care experience for our members, lower the cost of healthcare services delivered to our members, and appropriately document the risk profile of our members. our profitability and competitiveness depend in large part on our ability to appropriately manage health care costs through, among other things, the application of medical management programs such as our chronic care management program. in addition, we also estimate costs associated with long-duration insurance policies including long-term care, life insurance, annuities, and certain health and other supplemental insurance policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. at policy issuance, these future policy benefit reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, and maintenance expense assumptions. because these policies have long-term claim payout periods, there is a greater risk of significant variability in claims costs, either positive or negative. our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. the risk of a deviation of the actual interest, morbidity, mortality, and maintenance expense assumptions from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care insurance policies. we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care insurance policies, and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. however, to the extent premium rate increases or loss experience vary from the assumptions we have locked in, additional future adjustments to reserves could be required. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage our operating expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, additional investment in new products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs, state-based contracts, participation in health insurance exchanges, and expansion of clinical capabilities as part of our integrated care delivery model), investments in health and well-being product offerings, acquisitions, new taxes and assessments (including the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments under the health care reform law), and implementation of regulatory requirements may increase our operating expenses. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable, or effectively manage our operating expenses, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program or competitors in the delivery of health care services. we may also face increased competition due to participation by other insurers in the health insurance exchanges implemented under the health care reform law. we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform, and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. the policies and decisions of the federal and state governments regarding the medicare, military, medicaid and health insurance exchange programs in which we participate have a substantial impact on our profitability. these governmental policies and decisions, which we cannot predict with certainty, directly shape the premiums or other revenues to us under the programs, the eligibility and enrollment of our members, the services we provide to our members, and our administrative, health care services, and other costs associated with these programs. legislative or regulatory actions, such as those resulting in a reduction in premium payments to us, an increase in our cost of administrative and health care services, or additional fees, taxes or assessments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 20 premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose membership with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our state-based contracts strategy, and our participation in the new health insurance exchanges, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in these products. our future performance depends in large part upon our ability to execute our strategy, including opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare programs, the successful implementation of our integrated care delivery model, our strategy with respect to state-based contracts, including those covering members dually eligible for the medicare and medicaid programs, and our participation in health insurance exchanges. we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we offer both stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plans with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer a medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare products is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare products in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in medicare products. there is significant concentration of our revenues in medicare products, with approximately 72% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2015 generated from our medicare products, including 14% derived from our individual medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. the recently implemented health care reform law created a federal medicare-medicaid coordination office to serve dual eligibles. this medicare-medicaid coordination office has initiated a series of state demonstration projects to experiment with better coordination of care between medicare and medicaid. depending upon the results of those demonstration projects, cms may change the way in which dual eligibles are serviced. if we are unable to implement our strategic initiatives to address the dual eligibles opportunity, including our participation in state-based contracts, or if our initiatives are not successful at attracting or retaining dual eligible members, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial products, including participation in certain health insurance exchanges, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including humanavitality and other wellness products, growth of our specialty products such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, the adoption of new technologies, development of adjacent businesses, and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including implementing our integrated care delivery model, that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 21 if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have reduced the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. there can be no assurance that our information technology, or it, process will successfully improve existing systems, develop new systems to support our expanding operations, integrate new systems, protect our proprietary information, defend against cybersecurity attacks, or improve service levels. in addition, there can be no assurance that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we are unable to defend our information technology security systems against cybersecurity attacks or prevent other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or in the unintended dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could be exposed to significant regulatory fines or penalties, liability or reputational damage, or experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or a third-party. a cybersecurity attack may penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, cause shutdowns, or deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our systems. a cybersecurity attack that bypasses our it security systems successfully could materially affect us due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property, operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our it systems, or negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our members, customers, providers, and other stakeholders. 22 the costs to eliminate or address cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities before or after an incident could be substantial. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential members. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information about us or our members or other third-parties, could expose our members' private information and result in the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in significant regulatory fines or penalties, litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. our business may be materially adversely impacted by the adoption of a new coding set for diagnoses. federal regulations related to the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended (hipaa), contain minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets, and for the privacy and security of protected health information. on october 1, 2015, icd-10, the current system of assigning codes to diagnoses and procedures associated with hospital utilization in the united states, replaced the prior set of codes. for dates of service on or after october 1, 2015, health plans and providers are required to use icd-10 codes for such diagnoses and procedures. while we prepared for the transition to icd-10, if unforeseen circumstances arise, it is possible that we could be exposed to investigations and allegations of noncompliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, if some providers continue to use icd-9 codes on claims after october 1, 2015, including providers in our network who are employees, we will have to reject such claims, which may lead to claim resubmissions, increased call volume and provider and customer dissatisfaction. further, providers may use icd-10 codes differently than they used icd-9 codes in the past, which could result in increased claim submissions or lost revenues under risk adjustment. during the transition to icd-10, certain claims processing and payment information we have historically used to establish our reserves may not be reliable or available in a timely manner. if we do not adequately implement the new icd-10 coding set, or if providers in our network do not adequately transition to the new icd-10 coding set, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. we are involved in various legal actions and governmental and internal investigations, any of which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages or changes in our business practices. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are or may become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including breach of contract actions, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, stockholder suits and other securities laws claims, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management, and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers' alleged malpractice; claims arising from any adverse medical consequences resulting from our recommendations about the appropriateness of providers' proposed medical treatment plans for patients; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; 23 provider disputes over compensation or non-acceptance or termination of provider contracts or provider contract disputes relating to rate adjustments resulting from the balance budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985, as amended (commonly referred to as sequestration ); disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that we, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government including, among other allegations, resulting from coding and review practices under the medicare risk-adjustment model; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy; and professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may materially adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services or otherwise change our business practices, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see "legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters" in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these matters with certainty. as a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. these programs accounted for approximately 73% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2015 . these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2015 , under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 587,400 individual medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 14% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2015 . the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2015 , our military services business primarily consisted of the tricare south region contract which covers approximately 3,074,400 beneficiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2015 , 24 premiums and services revenue associated with the tricare south region contract accounted for approximately 1% of our total premiums and services revenue. on april 1, 2012, we began delivering services under the current tricare south region contract that the defense health agency, or dha (formerly known as the tricare management activity), awarded to us on february 25, 2011. the current 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2017, is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year during its term at the government's option. on january 22, 2016, we received notice from the dha of its intent to exercise its option to extend the tricare south region contract through march 31, 2017. the loss of the tricare south region contract, should it occur, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. as a government contractor, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that the government contractor submitted false claims to the government. litigation of this nature is filed under seal to allow the government an opportunity to investigate and to decide if it wishes to intervene and assume control of the litigation. if the government does not intervene, the lawsuit is unsealed, and the individual may continue to prosecute the action on his or her own. cms uses a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare advantage, or ma, plans according to health severity of covered members. the risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. under this model, rates paid to ma plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on a comparison of our beneficiaries' risk scores, derived from medical diagnoses, to those enrolled in the government's traditional fee-for-service medicare program (referred to as "medicare ffs"). under the risk-adjustment methodology, all ma plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses the diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to ma plans, which cms adjusts for coding pattern differences between the health plans and the government fee-for-service program. we generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to cms as the basis for our payment received from cms under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. we also rely on these providers to document appropriately all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. in addition, we conduct medical record reviews as part of our data and payment accuracy compliance efforts, to more accurately reflect diagnosis conditions under the risk adjustment model. these compliance efforts include the internal contract level audits described in more detail below. cms is continuing to perform audits of various companies' selected ma contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. we refer to these audits as risk-adjustment data validation audits, or radv audits. radv audits review medical records in an attempt to validate provider medical record documentation and coding practices which influence the calculation of premium payments to ma plans. in 2012, cms released a notice of final payment error calculation methodology for part c medicare advantage risk adjustment data validation (radv) contract-level audits. the payment error calculation methodology provides that, in calculating the economic impact of audit results for an ma contract, if any, the results of the audit sample will be extrapolated to the entire ma contract based upon a comparison to benchmark audit data in medicare ffs (which we refer to as the "ffs adjuster"). this comparison to the ffs adjuster is necessary to determine the economic impact, if any, of audit results because the government program data set, including any attendant errors that are present in that data set, provides the basis for ma plans' risk adjustment to payment rates. cms already makes other adjustments to payment rates based on a comparison of coding pattern differences between ma plans and medicare ffs data (such as for frequency of coding for certain diagnoses in ma plan data versus the government program data set). 25 the final methodology, including the first application of extrapolated audit results to determine audit settlements, is expected to be applied to radv contract level audits currently being conducted for contract year 2011 in which two of our medicare advantage plans are being audited. per cms guidance, selected ma contracts will be notified of an audit at some point after the close of the final reconciliation for the payment year being audited. the final reconciliation occurs in august of the calendar year following the payment year. we were notified on september 15, 2015, that five of our medicare advantage contracts have been selected for audit for contract year 2012. estimated audit settlements are recorded as a reduction of premiums revenue in our consolidated statements of income, based upon available information. we perform internal contract level audits based on the radv audit methodology prescribed by cms. included in these internal contract level audits is an audit of our private fee-for-service business which we used to represent a proxy of the ffs adjuster which has not yet been released. we based our accrual of estimated audit settlements for each contract year on the results of these internal contract level audits and update our estimates as each audit is completed. estimates derived from these results were not material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. however, as indicated, we are awaiting additional guidance from cms regarding the ffs adjuster. accordingly, we cannot determine whether such radv audits will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, cms' comments in formalized guidance regarding overpayments to ma plans appear to be inconsistent with cms' prior radv audit guidance. these statements, contained in the preamble to cms' final rule release regarding medicare advantage and part d prescription drug benefit program regulations for contract year 2015, appear to equate each medicare advantage risk adjustment data error with an overpayment without reconciliation to the principles underlying the ffs adjuster referenced above. we will continue to work with cms to ensure that ma plans are paid accurately and that payment model principles are in accordance with the requirements of the social security act, which, if not implemented correctly could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members' prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premiums revenue related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net payable of $22 million at december 31, 2015 . reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms's portion of claims costs which exceed the member's out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms's prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms's claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms's claim edit processes, 26 we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment which we would have otherwise received as a low-income subsidy or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms's share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. the budget control act of 2011 increased the united states debt ceiling conditioned on deficit reductions to be achieved over the next ten years. the budget control act of 2011 also established a twelve-member joint committee of congress known as the joint select committee on deficit reduction to propose legislation to reduce the united states federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. the failure of the joint select committee on deficit reduction to achieve a targeted deficit reduction by december 23, 2011 triggered an automatic reduction, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. these reductions took effect on april 1, 2013, and the bipartisan budget act of 2013, enacted on december 26, 2013, extended the reductions for two years. we expect a corresponding substantial reduction in our obligations to providers. due to the uncertainty around the application of any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we can completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs applied by the budget control act of 2011. we are also subject to various other governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. the outcome of any current or future governmental or internal investigations cannot be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. nevertheless, it is reasonably possible that any such outcome of litigation, penalties, fines or other sanctions could be substantial, and the outcome of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. certain of these matters could also affect our reputation. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs by, among other things, requiring a minimum benefit ratio on insured products, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with a non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. the provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, imposing a significant new non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments on health insurers, limiting medicare advantage payment rates, stipulating a prescribed minimum ratio for the amount of premiums revenue to be expended on medical costs for insured products, additional mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, requirements that limit the ability of health plans to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, and heightened scrutiny by state and federal regulators of our business practices, including our medicare bid and pricing practices. the health care reform law also specifies benefit design guidelines, limits rating and pricing practices, encourages additional competition (including potential incentives for new market entrants), establishes federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges for individuals and small employers (with up to 100 employees) coupled 27 with programs designed to spread risk among insurers (subject to federal administrative action), and expands eligibility for medicaid programs (subject to state-by-state implementation of this expansion). in addition, the health care reform law has increased and will continue to increase federal oversight of health plan premium rates and could adversely affect our ability to appropriately adjust health plan premiums on a timely basis. financing for these reforms will come, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us and other health plans and individuals which began in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health care reform law, our business may be materially adversely affected. for additional information, please refer to the section entitled, health care reform in item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in this annual report. our participation in the new federal and state health insurance exchanges, which entail uncertainties associated with mix, volume of business and the operation of premium stabilization programs, which are subject to federal administrative action, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the health care reform law required the establishment of health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers to purchase health insurance that became effective january 1, 2014, with an annual open enrollment period. insurers participating on the health insurance exchanges must offer a minimum level of benefits and are subject to guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. we may be adversely selected by individuals who have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants in this market. in addition, the risk corridor, reinsurance, and risk adjustment provisions of the health care reform law, established to apportion risk for insurers, may not be effective in appropriately mitigating the financial risks related to our products. during 2015, we received our interim settlement associated with our risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year. the interim settlement, representing only 12.6% of risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year, was funded by hhs in accordance with previous guidance, utilizing funds hhs collected from us and other carriers under the 2014 risk corridor program. hhs provided guidance under the three year risk corridor program that future collections will first be applied to any shortfalls from previous coverage years before application to current year obligations. risk corridor payables to issuers are obligations of the united states government under the health care reform law which requires the secretary of hhs to make full payments to issuers. in the event of a shortfall at the end of the three year program, hhs has asserted it will explore other sources of funding for risk corridor payments, subject to the availability of appropriations. in addition, regulatory changes to the implementation of the health care reform law that allowed individuals to remain in plans that are not compliant with the health care reform law or to enroll outside of the annual enrollment period may have an adverse effect on our pool of participants in the health insurance exchange. all of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows if our premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions used in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application, including reductions in medicare advantage payment rates, could increase our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition to the health care reform law, the health care industry in general and health insurance are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation: health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (hitech act) the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes 28 administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers, and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans and providers). the hitech act, one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, significantly broadened the scope of the privacy and security regulations of hipaa. among other requirements, the hitech act and hipaa mandate individual notification in the event of a breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information, provides enhanced penalties for hipaa violations, requires business associates to comply with certain provisions of the hipaa privacy and security rule, and grants enforcement authority to state attorneys general in addition to the hhs office of civil rights. in addition, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. state statutes and regulations vary from state to state and could impose additional penalties. violations of hipaa or applicable federal or state laws or regulations could subject us to significant criminal or civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa and other privacy regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to the u.s. department of health and human services in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business associates to comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa's provisions and requires the u.s. department of health and human services to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. corporate practice of medicine and other laws as a corporate entity, humana inc. is not licensed to practice medicine. many states in which we operate through our subsidiaries limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. under management agreements between certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed healthcare providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. we believe that our health services operations comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, and similar issues. however, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these statutes, which could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. 29 anti-kickback, physician self-referral, and other fraud and abuse laws a federal law commonly referred to as the anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of medicare or other governmental health program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease, or order of items or services that are covered by medicare or other federal governmental health programs. because the prohibitions contained in the anti-kickback statute apply to the furnishing of items or services for which payment is made in whole or in part, the anti-kickback statute could be implicated if any portion of an item or service we provide is covered by any of the state or federal health benefit programs described above. violation of these provisions constitutes a felony criminal offense and applicable sanctions could include exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. section 1877 of the social security act, commonly known as the stark law, prohibits physicians, subject to certain exceptions described below, from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity providing designated health services in which the physician, or an immediate family member, has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has entered into a compensation arrangement. these prohibitions, contained in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1993, commonly known as stark ii, amended prior federal physician self-referral legislation known as stark i by expanding the list of designated health services to a total of 11 categories of health services. the professional groups with which we are affiliated provide one or more of these designated health services. persons or entities found to be in violation of the stark law are subject to denial of payment for services furnished pursuant to an improper referral, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. many states also have enacted laws similar in scope and purpose to the anti-kickback statute and, in more limited instances, the stark law, that are not limited to services for which medicare or medicaid payment is made. in addition, most states have statutes, regulations, or professional codes that restrict a physician from accepting various kinds of remuneration in exchange for making referrals. these laws vary from state to state and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. in states that have enacted these statutes, we believe that regulatory authorities and state courts interpreting these statutes may regard federal law under the anti-kickback statute and the stark law as persuasive. we believe that our operations comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, and similar federal or state laws addressing fraud and abuse. these laws are subject to modification and changes in interpretation, and are enforced by authorities vested with broad discretion. we continually monitor developments in this area. if these laws are interpreted in a manner contrary to our interpretation or are reinterpreted or amended, or if new legislation is enacted with respect to healthcare fraud and abuse, illegal remuneration, or similar issues, we may be required to restructure our affected operations to maintain compliance with applicable law. there can be no assurances that any such restructuring will be possible or, if possible, would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. environmental we are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment. if an environmental regulatory agency finds any of our facilities to be in violation of environmental laws, penalties and fines may be imposed for each day of violation and the affected facility could be forced to cease operations. we could also incur other significant costs, such as cleanup costs or claims by third parties, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. although we believe that our environmental practices, including waste handling and disposal practices, are in material compliance with applicable laws, future claims or violations, or changes in environmental laws, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 30 state regulation of insurance-related products laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: capital adequacy and other licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate increases, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed insurance subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue our acquisition strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, transactions outside of our core business space, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. the failure to successfully integrate acquired entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of our acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. in addition, from time to time, we evaluate alternatives for our businesses that do not meet our strategic, growth or profitability objectives. the divestiture of certain businesses could result, individually or in the aggregate, in the recognition of material losses and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such divestitures on terms favorable to us. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we employ or contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. a key component of our integrated care delivery strategy is to increase the number of providers who share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations, or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate unfavorable contracts with us or place us at a competitive disadvantage, or do not enter into contracts with us that encourage the delivery of quality medical services in a cost-effective manner, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care providers for an actuarially determined, fixed fee per month to provide a basket of required medical services to our members. this type of contract 31 is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our pharmacy mail order business competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, internet companies and other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state's board of pharmacy. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations, requiring registration with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-order pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose us to civil and criminal penalties. changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. it is uncertain whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. regulators have conducted investigations into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our mail-order pharmacy business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 32 if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our mail-order and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from certain of our licensed subsidiaries is restricted by state insurance regulations. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. certain of our insurance subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, administrative expense reimbursements or other cash transfers to humana inc., and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these insurance subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, or ordinary dividends, is limited based on the entity's level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. dividends from our non-insurance companies such as in our healthcare services segment are generally not restricted by departments of insurance. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. in addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would increase, our sales and earnings could decrease, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. 33 the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, acquisitions, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months, as well as to refinance or repay debt, and repurchase shares. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. prior to 2009, under interest rate swap agreements, we exchanged the fixed interest rate under all of our senior notes for a variable interest rate based on libor using interest rate swap agreements. we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements in 2008. we may re-enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either libor plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2015 or december 31, 2014 . interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with a weighted average s&amp;p credit rating of aa at december 31, 2015 . our net unrealized position decreased $383 million from a net unrealized gain position of $475 million at december 31, 2014 to a net unrealized gain position of $92 million at december 31, 2015 . at december 31, 2015 , we had gross unrealized losses of $126 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates since the time the securities were purchased. there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2015 . while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio's cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the 83 sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 4.1 years as of december 31, 2015 and 4.1 years as of december 31, 2014 . based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $459 million . we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200, and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2015 and 2014 . our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may affect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points once , have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points two times, and have changed by less than 100 basis points seven times. increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in millions) as of december 31, 2015 investment income (a) $ (33 ) $ (27 ) $ (21 ) $ 41 $ 82 $ 124 interest expense (b) 3 3 3 (3 ) (6 ) (9 ) pretax $ (30 ) $ (24 ) $ (18 ) $ 38 $ 76 $ 115 as of december 31, 2014 investment income (a) $ (20 ) $ (15 ) $ (9 ) $ 42 $ 85 $ 128 interest expense (b) pretax $ (20 ) $ (15 ) $ (9 ) $ 42 $ 85 $ 128 (a) as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , some of our investments had interest rates below 3% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 3% point reduction. (b) the interest rate under our senior notes is fixed. there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2015 or december 31, 2014 . there was $299 million outstanding under our commercial paper program at december 31, 2015 . as of december 31, 2015 , our interest rate under our commercial paper program was less than 1% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 1% point reduction. there were no borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper program at december 31, 2014 . 84risk factors 17 risk factors in this 2016 form 10-k for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. aetna merger on july 2, 2015, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, which we refer to in this report as the merger agreement, with aetna inc. and certain wholly owned subsidiaries of aetna inc., which we refer to collectively as aetna, which sets forth the terms and conditions under which we agreed to merge with, and become a wholly owned subsidiary of aetna, a transaction we refer to in this report as the merger. 3 the merger was subject to customary closing conditions, including, among other things, (i) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, and the receipt of necessary approvals under state insurance and healthcare laws and regulations and pursuant to certain licenses of certain of humana's subsidiaries, and (ii) the absence of legal restraints and prohibitions on the consummation of the merger. on december 22, 2016, in order to extend the end date (as defined in the merger agreement), aetna and humana each agreed to waive until 11:59 p.m. (eastern time) on february 15, 2017 its right to terminate the merger agreement due to a failure of the mergers to have been completed on or before december 31, 2016. on july 21, 2016, the u.s. department of justice and the attorneys general of certain u.s. jurisdictions filed a civil antitrust complaint in the u.s. district court for the district of columbia against us and aetna, alleging that the merger would violate section 7 of the clayton antitrust act and seeking a permanent injunction to prevent the merger from being completed. on january 23, 2017, the court ruled in favor of the doj and granted a permanent injunction of the proposed transaction. on february 14, 2017, we and aetna agreed to mutually terminate the merger agreement, as our board determined that an appeal of the court's ruling would not be in the best interest of our stockholders. under terms of the merger agreement, we are entitled to a breakup fee of $1 billion . health care reform the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. certain significant provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to medicare advantage premiums, the establishment of federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, and the introduction of plan designs based on set actuarial values. in addition, the health care reform law established insurance industry assessments, including an annual health insurance industry fee and a three-year industry wide commercial reinsurance fee. the health care reform law is discussed more fully in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled health care reform in this 2016 form 10-k. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health care reform law, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, potential legislative changes, including activities to repeal or replace the health care reform law, creates uncertainty for our business, and we cannot predict when, or in what form, such legislative changes may occur. business segments we manage our business with three reportable segments: retail, group, and healthcare services. in addition, the other businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles. these segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer to assess performance and allocate resources. our products our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. these products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. health maintenance organizations, or hmos, generally require a referral from the member's primary care provider before seeing certain specialty physicians. preferred provider organizations, or ppos, provide members the freedom to choose a health care provider without requiring a referral. however ppos generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider's fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the ppo's network. point of service, or pos, plans combine the advantages of hmo plans with the 4 flexibility of ppo plans. in general, pos plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan's network or outside the network. in addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy solutions, provider, home based, and clinical programs, as well as services and capabilities to advance population health. at the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. three core elements of the model are to improve the consumer experience by simplifying the interaction with us, engaging members in clinical programs, and offering assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused. the model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. the discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. our retail segment products this segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the retail segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2016 : retail segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: individual medicare advantage $ 31,863 59.0 % group medicare advantage 4,283 8.0 % medicare stand-alone pdp 4,009 7.4 % total medicare 40,155 74.4 % individual commercial 3,492 6.4 % state-based medicaid 2,640 4.9 % individual specialty 259 0.5 % total premiums 46,546 86.2 % services 8 % total premiums and services revenue $ 46,554 86.2 % medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 30 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. we have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. we believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional fee-for-service medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as medicare ffs. as an alternative to medicare ffs, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under medicare ffs. our medicare advantage, or ma, plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. individual medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, chronic care management, and care coordination, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of medicare ffs, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. most of our medicare pffs plans are network-based products with in and out of network benefits due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. in these areas, we offer medicare pffs plans that have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to medicare ffs payment rates. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms's risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. cms is phasing-in the process of calculating risk scores using diagnoses data from the risk adjustment processing system, or raps, to diagnosis data from the encounter data system, or eds. the raps process requires ma plans to apply a filter logic based on cms guidelines and only submit those claims that pass the filtering logic. for submissions through eds, cms requires ma plans to submit all the claims data and cms will apply the risk adjustment filtering logic to determine the risk adjustment data used to calculate risk scores. for 2016, 10% of the risk score was calculated from claims data submitted through eds, increasing to 25% of the risk score calculated from claims data through eds for 2017. at december 31, 2016 , we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 2,837,600 individual medicare advantage members, including approximately 598,100 members in florida. these florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $7.7 billion , which represented approximately 24.2% of our individual medicare advantage premiums revenue, or 14.0% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2016 . 6 our hmo, ppo, and pffs products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage products have been renewed for 2017 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2017 have been approved. individual medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d, including a pdp offering co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., or the humana-walmart plan. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our pdp bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled medicare part d provisions. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp products have been renewed for 2017 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2017 have been approved. we have administered cms's limited income newly eligible transition, or li-net, prescription drug plan program since 2010. this program allows individuals who receive medicare's low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a medicare part d plan. cms temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both medicare and medicaid into the li-net prescription drug plan program, and subsequently transitions each member into a medicare part d plan that may or may not be a humana medicare plan. group medicare advantage and medicare stand-alone pdp we offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace medicare wrap or medicare supplement products with medicare advantage or stand-alone pdps from humana. these products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an employer's post-retirement benefit structure. state-based medicaid contracts our state-based contracts allow us to serve members enrolled in state-based medicaid programs including temporary assistance to needy families, or tanf, long-term support services, or ltss, and dual eligible demonstration programs. tanf is a state and federally funded program that provides cash assistance and supportive services to assist families with children under age 18, helping them achieve economic self-sufficiency. ltss is a state and federally funded program that offers states a broad and flexible set of program design options and refers to the delivery of long-term support services for our members who receive home and community or institution-based services for long-term care. our contracts are generally for three to five year terms. medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. the dual eligible population represents a disproportionate share of medicaid and medicare costs. there were approximately 10.4 million dual eligible individuals in the united states in 2016 , trending upward due to medicaid eligibility expansions and individuals aging into the medicare program. since the enactment of the health care reform law, states are pursuing stand-alone dual eligible cms demonstration programs in which medicare, medicaid, and ltss benefits are more tightly integrated. eligibility for participation in these stand-alone dual eligible demonstration programs may require state-based contractual relationships in existing medicaid programs. 7 we have contracts to serve medicaid eligible members in florida under the tanf and ltss programs. our contracts in virginia and illinois serve members under each state's stand-alone dual eligible demonstration program. in addition, in illinois we have an integrated care program, or icp, medicaid contract. our kentucky medicaid contract is subject to a 100% coinsurance contract with caresource management group company, ceding all the risk to caresource. in addition to the dual eligible members we serve under the virginia and illinois demonstration program, we serve other dual eligible members enrolled in our medicare advantage and stand-alone prescription drug plans. as of december 31, 2016 , we served approximately 486,000 dual eligible members in our medicare advantage plans and approximately 1,179,000 dual eligible members in our stand-alone prescription drug plans. individual commercial coverage our individual health plans are marketed under the humanaone brand. we offer products both on and off of the public exchange. we offer products on exchanges where we can achieve an affordable cost of care, including hmo offerings and select networks in most markets. our off-exchange products are primarily ppo and pos offerings, including plans issued prior to 2014 that were previously underwritten. for 2017, we discontinued substantially all health care reform law compliant off-exchange individual commercial medical plans effective january 1, 2017. policies issued prior to the enactment of the health care reform law on march 23, 2010 are grandfathered policies. grandfathered policies are exempt from most of the requirements of the health care reform law, including mandated benefits. however, our grandfathered plans include provisions that guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the plan is continued and the individual chooses to renew. policies issued between march 23, 2010 and december 31, 2013 are required to conform to the health care reform law, including mandated benefits, upon renewal at various transition dates between 2016 and 2017 depending on the state. on february 14, 2017, we announced we are exiting our individual commercial medical businesses january 1, 2018 as more fully described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. rewards-based wellness programs are included with many individual products. we also offer optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a portfolio of financial protection products. 8 group segment products this segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including medical and supplemental benefit plans as well as health and wellness products as described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the group segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2016 : group segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) external revenue: premiums: fully-insured commercial group $ 5,405 10.0 % group specialty 1,020 1.9 % military services 12 % total premiums 6,437 11.9 % services 694 1.3 % total premiums and services revenue $ 7,131 13.2 % intersegment services revenue: wellness $ 99 n/a total intersegment services revenue $ 99 n/a not applicable group commercial coverage our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through hmo, ppo, or pos plans, or self-funded basis. our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government's health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. as with our individual commercial products, the employer group offerings include go365 tm , our wellness and loyalty reward program. our administrative services only, or aso, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured hmo, ppo, or pos products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, more than half of our aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. as with individual commercial policies, employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a portfolio of voluntary benefit products. military services under our tricare south region contract with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the dod. on april 1, 2012, we began delivering services under our current tricare south region contract that the defense health agency, or dha (formerly known as the tricare management activity), awarded to us on february 25, 2011. under the current contract, we provide administrative services while the federal government 9 retains all of the risk of the cost of health benefits. accordingly, we account for revenues under the current contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. wellness we offer wellness solutions including our go365 wellness and loyalty rewards program, health coaching, employee assistance program, and clinical programs. these programs, when offered collectively to employer customers as our total health product, turn any standard plan of the employer's choosing into an integrated health and well-being solution that encourages participation in these programs. our go365 program provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual's needs and wants. a key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an incentive program. we also provide employee assistance programs and coaching services including a comprehensive turn-key coaching program, an enhancement to a medically based coaching protocol and a platform that makes coaching programs more efficient. our healthcare services segment products the products offered by our healthcare services segment are key to our integrated care delivery model. this segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that offer services including pharmacy solutions, provider services, home based services, clinical programs, and predictive modeling and informatics services to other humana businesses, as well as external health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. our intersegment revenue is described in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. the following table presents our services revenue for the healthcare services segment by line of business for the year ended december 31, 2016 : healthcare services segment services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) intersegment revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 21,952 n/a provider services 1,677 n/a home based services 1,026 n/a clinical programs 180 n/a total intersegment revenue $ 24,835 external services revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 31 0.1 % provider services 78 0.1 % home based services 148 0.3 % total external services revenue $ 257 0.5 % n/a not applicable pharmacy solutions humana pharmacy solutions , or hps, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. hps also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through humana pharmacy, inc., as well as research services. 10 provider services we operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers, primarily in florida, staffed by primary care providers and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry. we also operate transcend, a medical services organization, or mso, that coordinates medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries primarily in four states. transcend provides resources in care coordination, financial risk management, clinical integration and patient engagement that help physicians improve the patient experience as well as care outcomes. transcend collaborates with physicians, medical groups and integrated delivery systems to successfully transition to value-based care by engaging, partnering and offering practical services and solutions. transcend represents a key component of our integrated care delivery model which we believe is scalable to new markets. in addition, we own a noncontrolling equity interest in mcci holdings, llc, a privately held mso headquartered in miami, florida, that primarily coordinates medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries in florida, texas and georgia. programs to enhance the quality of care for members are key elements of our integrated care delivery model. we believe that technology represents a significant opportunity in health care that positively impacts our members. our transcend insights business focuses on population health and wellness capabilities across the sector and serves health care systems, physicians and care teams by leveraging actionable data to help improve patient care. we help care teams and patients transition from a reactive approach to care to one that proactively promotes health and long-term wellness. we have enhanced our health information technology capabilities enabling us to create a more complete view of an individual's health, designed to connect, coordinate and simplify health care while reducing costs. these capabilities include our health care analytics engine, which reviews billions of clinical data points on millions of patients each day to provide members, providers, and payers real-time clinical insights to identify evidence-based gaps-in-care, drug safety alerts and other critical health concerns to improve outcomes. additionally, our technology connects humana and disparate electronic health record systems to enable the exchange of essential health information in real-time to provide physicians and care teams with a single, comprehensive patient view. on june 1, 2015, we completed the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary, concentra inc., or concentra, that delivered occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness services to employees and the general public through its operation of medical centers and worksite medical facilities. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. home based services via in-home care, telephonic health counseling/coaching, and remote monitoring, we are actively involved in the care management of our customers with the greatest needs. home based services include the operations of humana at home, inc., or humana at home . as a chronic-care provider of in-home care for seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. we focus our deployment of these services in geographies, such as florida, with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions. the clinical support and care provided by humana at home is designed to improve health outcomes and result in a higher number of days members can spend at their homes instead of in an acute care facility. to that end, we have accelerated our process for identifying and reaching out to members in need of clinical intervention. at december 31, 2016 , we enrolled approximately 622,300 members with complex chronic conditions in the humana chronic care program, a 5.4% increase compared with approximately 590,300 members at december 31, 2015 , reflecting enhanced predictive modeling capabilities and focus on proactive clinical outreach and member engagement, particularly for our medicare advantage membership. we believe these initiatives lead to better health outcomes for our members and lower health care costs. clinical programs we are committed to the integrated physical and mental health of our members. accordingly, we take a holistic approach to healthcare, offering care management, behavioral health services and wellness programs. 11 our care management programs take full advantage of the population health, wellness and clinical applications offered by transcend insights and carehub, our clinical management tool used by providers and care managers across the company to help our members achieve their best health, to offer various levels of support, matching the intensity of the support to the needs of members with ongoing health challenges through telephonic and onsite programs. these programs include personal nurse, chronic condition management, and case management as well as programs supporting maternity, cancer, neonatal intensive care unit, and transplant services. in addition, we focus on the behavioral aspects of a members' health such as managing stress and work/life balance. humana behavioral health takes a holistic, mind-and-body approach to behavioral healthcare to address the whole person, encouraging faster recovery and improving clinical outcomes while reducing costs for both the member and employer. other businesses other businesses primarily includes our closed block of long-term care insurance policies described below. total premiums and services revenue for our other businesses was $48 million , or 0.1% of consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2016 . we have a non-strategic closed block of approximately 30,800 long-term care insurance policies associated with our acquisition of kmg america corporation in 2007. long-term care insurance policies are intended to protect the insured from the cost of long-term care services including those provided by nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and adult day care as well as home health care services. no new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2016 , by market and product: retail segment group segment (in thousands) individual medicare advantage group medicare advantage medicare stand- alone pdp individual commercial medicare supplement state- based contracts fully- insured commercial group aso military services other businesses total percent of total florida 598.1 16.0 345.0 194.4 6.7 365.9 140.2 50.7 1,717.0 12.1 % texas 222.5 69.9 309.7 101.4 7.5 203.1 24.6 938.7 6.6 % kentucky 76.3 58.2 206.5 10.1 5.4 107.7 170.1 634.3 4.5 % georgia 115.8 2.5 130.2 163.7 9.9 158.1 20.8 601.0 4.2 % california 70.0 0.1 444.3 15.7 530.1 3.7 % ohio 118.2 16.3 181.8 5.8 48.5 51.0 69.1 490.7 3.4 % illinois 87.8 21.3 174.7 5.4 4.4 11.5 72.8 89.9 467.8 3.3 % missouri/kansas 90.7 4.3 213.2 16.4 8.1 54.9 10.8 398.4 2.8 % north carolina 146.4 39.5 178.3 2.6 4.7 371.5 2.6 % tennessee 144.9 3.7 108.6 27.9 4.0 46.7 29.4 365.2 2.6 % louisiana 155.9 11.5 58.2 29.2 1.6 68.6 32.9 357.9 2.5 % wisconsin 63.2 10.6 113.0 5.9 5.0 89.0 37.2 323.9 2.3 % virginia 112.3 6.1 140.3 1.4 7.9 10.7 278.7 2.0 % indiana 93.1 3.7 133.3 2.1 7.5 22.8 14.2 276.7 1.9 % michigan 47.4 14.0 147.6 27.2 2.9 5.3 0.5 244.9 1.7 % pennsylvania 40.3 0.9 157.4 4.6 203.2 1.4 % south carolina 95.0 0.8 86.0 0.2 4.7 186.7 1.3 % military services 3,084.1 3,084.1 21.7 % others 559.7 76.0 1,823.3 61.1 69.7 115.8 23.0 30.8 2,759.4 19.4 % totals 2,837.6 355.4 4,951.4 654.8 218.8 388.1 1,136.0 573.2 3,084.1 30.8 14,230.2 100.0 % 12 provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we employ or with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into various care management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. we have available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. we also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. the terms of our contracts with hospitals and physicians may also vary between medicare and commercial business. a significant portion of our medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to medicare reimbursement levels and methodologies. automatic reductions to the federal budget, known as sequestration, took effect on april 1, 2013, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year. due to the uncertainty around the application of these reductions, there can be no assurances that we can completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs. capitation we offer providers a continuum of opportunities to increase the integration of care and offer assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. these include performance bonuses, shared savings and shared risk relationships. for some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership, primarily hmo membership. under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated member. 13 we believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery model at the core of our strategy. our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries. at december 31, 2016 , approximately 1,193,400 members, or 8.4% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts, including 921,000 individual medicare advantage members, or 32.5% of our total individual medicare advantage membership. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician's financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we typically process all claims and monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we delegated claim processing functions under capitation arrangements covering approximately 191,300 hmo members, including 170,500 individual medicare advantage members, or 18.5% of the 921,000 individual medicare advantage members covered under risk-based contracts at december 31, 2016 , with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating the members' health care benefits. capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the underlying claims experience was approximately $1.3 billion , or 2.9% of total benefits expense, for the year ended december 31, 2016 . we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. providers participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses, review of their malpractice liability claims histories, review of their board certifications, if applicable, and review of applicable quality information. a committee, composed of a peer group of providers, reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care, and urac. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. additionally, all products sold on the federal and state marketplaces are required to be accredited. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa reviews our compliance based on standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in most of our commercial, medicare and medicaid hmo/pos markets with enough history and membership, and for many of our ppo markets. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2016 , we employed approximately 1,500 sales representatives, as well as approximately 1,300 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare and individual commercial health insurance 14 and specialty products in our retail segment, including making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we have a marketing arrangement with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart, for our individual medicare stand-alone pdp offering. we also sell group medicare advantage products through large employers. in addition, we market our medicare and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products through licensed independent brokers and agents. for our medicare products, commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure, regulated in structure and amount by cms. for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products, we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. in our group segment, individuals may become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer's or group's exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. in addition, we have begun to offer plans to employer groups through private exchanges. employers can give their employees a set amount of money and then direct them to a private exchange where employees can shop for a health plan and other benefits based on what the employer has selected as options. we use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, and employees to sell our group products. many of our larger employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products. underwriting since 2014, the health care reform law requires all individual and certain group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments. accordingly, newly issued individual and certain group health plans are not subject to underwriting. further, underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos. many of our competitors have a larger membership base and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in item 1a. risk factors in this 2016 form 10-k. government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation's health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see item 1a. risk factors in this 2016 form 10-k. 15 certain other services captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers' compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service. through intercompany service agreements approved, if required, by state regulatory authorities, humana inc., our parent company, charges a management fee for reimbursement of certain centralized services provided to its subsidiaries. employees as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately 51,600 employees and approximately 2,600 additional medical professionals working under management agreements primarily between us and affiliated physician-owned associations. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 16 item 1a. risk factors risks relating to the terminated merger with aetna our proposed merger with aetna has affected and may in the future, materially and adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. on february 14, 2017, we and aetna agreed to mutually terminate our merger agreement, as our board determined that an appeal of the court's ruling enjoining the transaction would not be in the best interest of our stockholders. although difficult to quantify, we believe that the proposed merger with aetna, and subsequent termination of the merger agreement, has affected and may, in the future, materially and adversely affect our results of operations, due to the following: continued liability for certain transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs relating to the transaction; diverted management attention to the transaction and integration planning efforts; disruption of our business due to member uncertainty over when or if the acquisition will be completed or members' perception of us as a standalone company, our perception among and activities by external brokers, as well as our ability to negotiate and maintain relationships with certain providers in our network; certain restrictions in the merger agreement on the conduct of our business prior to its termination; and other uncertainties that have impaired our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key personnel. the occurrence, continuation or exacerbation of any of these events individually or in combination could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. risks relating to our business if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, if we are unable to implement clinical initiatives to provide a better health care experience for our members, lower costs and appropriately document the risk profile of our members, or if our estimates of benefits expense are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefits expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. we continually review these estimates, however these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. any reserve, including a premium deficiency reserve, may be insufficient. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves, including premium deficiency reserves where appropriate. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services; 17 increased cost of such services; increased use or cost of prescription drugs, including specialty prescription drugs; the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including any that result from the health care reform law. key to our operational strategy is the implementation of clinical initiatives that we believe provide a better health care experience for our members, lower the cost of healthcare services delivered to our members, and appropriately document the risk profile of our members. our profitability and competitiveness depend in large part on our ability to appropriately manage health care costs through, among other things, the application of medical management programs such as our chronic care management program. in addition, we also estimate costs associated with long-duration insurance policies including long-term care, life insurance, annuities, and certain health and other supplemental insurance policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. at policy issuance, these future policy benefit reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, and maintenance expense assumptions. because these policies have long-term claim payout periods, there is a greater risk of significant variability in claims costs, either positive or negative. our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. the risk of a deviation of the actual interest, morbidity, mortality, and maintenance expense assumptions from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care insurance policies. we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care insurance policies, and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. however, to the extent premium rate increases or loss experience vary from the assumptions we have locked in, additional future adjustments to reserves could be required. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage our operating expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, any costs associated with exiting products, additional investment in new products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs, state-based contracts, participation in health insurance exchanges, and expansion of clinical capabilities as part of our integrated care delivery model), investments in health and well-being product offerings, acquisitions, new taxes and assessments (including the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments under the health care reform law), and implementation of regulatory requirements may increase our operating expenses. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable, or effectively manage our operating expenses, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program or competitors in the delivery of health care services. we may also face increased competition due to participation by other insurers in the health insurance exchanges implemented under the health care reform law. we believe that barriers to entry 18 in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform, and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. the policies and decisions of the federal and state governments regarding the medicare, military, medicaid and health insurance exchange programs in which we participate have a substantial impact on our profitability. these governmental policies and decisions, which we cannot predict with certainty, directly shape the premiums or other revenues to us under the programs, the eligibility and enrollment of our members, the services we provide to our members, and our administrative, health care services, and other costs associated with these programs. legislative or regulatory actions, such as those resulting in a reduction in premium payments to us, an increase in our cost of administrative and health care services, or additional fees, taxes or assessments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose membership with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our state-based contracts strategy, and our participation in the new health insurance exchanges, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in these products. our future performance depends in large part upon our ability to execute our strategy, including opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare programs, the successful implementation of our integrated care delivery model, our strategy with respect to state-based contracts, including those covering members dually eligible for the medicare and medicaid programs, and our participation in health insurance exchanges. we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we offer both stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plans with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer a medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare products is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare products in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in medicare products. there is significant concentration of our revenues in medicare products, with approximately 74% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2016 generated from our medicare products, including 14% derived from our individual medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. the health care reform law created a federal medicare-medicaid coordination office to serve dual eligibles. this medicare-medicaid coordination office has initiated a series of state demonstration projects to experiment with better coordination of care between medicare and medicaid. depending upon the results of those demonstration projects, cms may change the way in which dual eligibles are serviced. if we are unable to implement our strategic initiatives 19 to address the dual eligibles opportunity, including our participation in state-based contracts, or if our initiatives are not successful at attracting or retaining dual eligible members, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial products, including participation in certain health insurance exchanges, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including go365 and other wellness products, growth of our specialty products such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, the adoption of new technologies, development of adjacent businesses, and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including implementing our integrated care delivery model, that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our star ratings in future years. in addition, there can be no guarantees that the reconsideration that we filed with respect to certain of our star rating measures for the 2018 bonus year will be successful, that operational measures we may take will successfully mitigate any negative effects of star quality ratings for the 2018 bonus year or future years, or that we will not experience a decline in membership growth for 2018 as a result of our 2018 bonus year star ratings. the achievement of star ratings of 4-star or higher qualifies medicare advantage plans for premium bonuses. our medicare advantage plans' operating results may be significantly affected by their star ratings. despite our operational efforts to improve our star ratings, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our star ratings in future years. in addition, audits of our performance for past or future periods may result in downgrades to our star ratings. accordingly, our plans may not be eligible for full level quality bonuses, which could adversely affect the benefits such plans can offer, reduce membership and/or reduce profit margins. on october 12, 2016, cms published updated star quality ratings for the 2018 bonus year, which showed that the percentage of our july 31, 2016 medicare advantage membership in 4-star plans or higher had declined to approximately 37 percent from approximately 78 percent of our july 31, 2015 medicare advantage membership. this decline in membership in 4-star rated plans does not take into account certain operational actions we intend to take over the coming quarters to mitigate any potential negative impact of these published ratings on star bonus revenues for 2018. moreover, we expect the impact of cms' comprehensive program audit on our star ratings to be limited to the 2018 bonus year, and star results for the 2018 bonus year are not expected to materially impact our medicare revenue for 2017. we believe that our star ratings for the 2018 bonus year do not accurately reflect our actual performance under the applicable star measures. consequently, we have filed for reconsideration of certain of those ratings by cms under the appropriate administrative process. there can be no guarantees, however, that the request for reconsideration that we filed with cms will be successful, that any operational measures we may take will successfully mitigate all negative effects of our star quality ratings for the 2018 bonus year, which could be material, or that we will not experience a decline in membership growth for 2018 as a result of our 2018 bonus year star ratings. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have reduced the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and 20 enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. there can be no assurance that our information technology, or it, process will successfully improve existing systems, develop new systems to support our expanding operations, integrate new systems, protect our proprietary information, defend against cybersecurity attacks, or improve service levels. in addition, there can be no assurance that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we are unable to defend our information technology security systems against cybersecurity attacks or prevent other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or in the unintended dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could be exposed to significant regulatory fines or penalties, liability or reputational damage, or experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or a third-party. a cybersecurity attack may penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, cause shutdowns, or deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our systems. a cybersecurity attack that bypasses our it security systems successfully could materially affect us due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property, operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our it systems, or negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our members, customers, providers, and other stakeholders. the costs to eliminate or address cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities before or after an incident could be substantial. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential members. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information about us or our members or other third-parties, could expose our members' private information and result in the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in significant regulatory fines or penalties, litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. 21 we are involved in various legal actions and governmental and internal investigations, any of which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages or changes in our business practices. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are or may become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including breach of contract actions, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, stockholder suits and other securities laws claims, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management, and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers' alleged malpractice; claims arising from any adverse medical consequences resulting from our recommendations about the appropriateness of providers' proposed medical treatment plans for patients; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation or non-acceptance or termination of provider contracts or provider contract disputes relating to rate adjustments resulting from the balance budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985, as amended (commonly referred to as sequestration ); disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that we, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government including, among other allegations, resulting from coding and review practices under the medicare risk-adjustment model; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy; and professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may materially adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services or otherwise change our business practices, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require 22 us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see "legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters" in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these matters with certainty. as a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. these programs accounted for approximately 75% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2016 . these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2016 , under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 598,100 individual medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 14% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2016 . the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2016 , our military services business primarily consisted of the tricare south region contract which covers approximately 3,084,100 beneficiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2016 , premiums and services revenue associated with the tricare south region contract accounted for approximately 1% of our total premiums and services revenue. on april 1, 2012, we began delivering services under the current tricare south region contract that the defense health agency, or dha (formerly known as the tricare management activity), awarded to us on february 25, 2011. the current 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2017, is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year during its term at the government's option. on march 30, 2016, we received notice that the dha exercised its option to extend the tricare south region contract through march 31, 2017. on july 21, 2016, we were notified by the dha that we were awarded the contract for the new tricare east region, which is a consolidation of the former north and south regions, with delivery of health care services expected to commence on october 1, 2017. the next generation east region and west region contract awards are currently subject to protests by unsuccessful bidders in the u.s. court of federal claims and before the dha. the loss of the tricare south region contract or an overturn of the award of the east region contract to us, should either occur, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. as a government contractor, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that the government contractor submitted false claims to the government. litigation of this nature is filed under seal to allow the government an opportunity to investigate and to decide if it wishes to intervene and assume control of the litigation. if the government does not intervene, the lawsuit is unsealed, and the individual may continue to prosecute the action on his or her own. cms uses a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare advantage, or ma, plans according to health severity of covered members. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997(bba) and the benefits improvement and protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more where a plan's membership has higher expected costs. under this model, rates paid to ma plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on a comparison of our beneficiaries' risk scores, derived from medical 23 diagnoses, to those enrolled in the government's traditional fee-for-service medicare program (referred to as "medicare ffs"). under the risk-adjustment methodology, all ma plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses the diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to ma plans, which cms adjusts for coding pattern differences between the health plans and the government fee-for-service program. we generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to cms as the basis for our payment received from cms under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. we also rely on these providers to document appropriately all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. in addition, we conduct medical record reviews as part of our data and payment accuracy compliance efforts, to more accurately reflect diagnosis conditions under the risk adjustment model. these compliance efforts include the internal contract level audits described in more detail below. cms is phasing-in the process of calculating risk scores using diagnoses data from the risk adjustment processing system, or raps, to diagnosis data from the encounter data system, or eds. the raps process requires ma plans to apply a filter logic based on cms guidelines and only submit those claims that pass the filtering logic. for submissions through eds, cms requires ma plans to submit all the claims data and cms will apply the risk adjustment filtering logic to determine the risk adjustment data used to calculate risk scores. for 2016, 10% of the risk score was calculated from claims data submitted through eds, increasing to 25% of the risk score calculated from claims data through eds for 2017. the phase-in from raps to eds could result in different risk scores from each dataset as a result of plan processing issues, cms processing issues, or filtering logic differences between raps and eds, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. cms is continuing to perform audits of various companies' selected ma contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. we refer to these audits as risk-adjustment data validation audits, or radv audits. radv audits review medical records in an attempt to validate provider medical record documentation and coding practices which influence the calculation of premium payments to ma plans. in 2012, cms released a notice of final payment error calculation methodology for part c medicare advantage risk adjustment data validation (radv) contract-level audits. the payment error calculation methodology provides that, in calculating the economic impact of audit results for an ma contract, if any, the results of the audit sample will be extrapolated to the entire ma contract based upon a comparison to benchmark audit data in medicare ffs (which we refer to as the "ffs adjuster"). this comparison to the ffs adjuster is necessary to determine the economic impact, if any, of audit results because the government program data set, including any attendant errors that are present in that data set, provides the basis for ma plans' risk adjustment to payment rates. cms already makes other adjustments to payment rates based on a comparison of coding pattern differences between ma plans and medicare ffs data (such as for frequency of coding for certain diagnoses in ma plan data versus the government program data set). the final methodology, including the first application of extrapolated audit results to determine audit settlements, is expected to be applied to radv contract level audits conducted for contract year 2011 and subsequent years. cms is currently conducting radv contract level audits for contract years 2011, 2012, and 2013, in which two, five, and five of our medicare advantage plans are being audited, respectively. per cms guidance, selected ma contracts will be notified of an audit at some point after the close of the final reconciliation for the payment year being audited. the final reconciliation occurs in august of the calendar year following the payment year. estimated audit settlements are recorded as a reduction of premiums revenue in our consolidated statements of income, based upon available information. we perform internal contract level audits based on the radv audit methodology prescribed by cms. included in these internal contract level audits is an audit of our private fee-for-service business which we used to represent a proxy of the ffs adjuster which has not yet been released. we based our accrual of estimated audit settlements for each contract year on the results of 24 these internal contract level audits and update our estimates as each audit is completed. estimates derived from these results were not material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. however, as indicated, we are awaiting additional guidance from cms regarding the ffs adjuster. accordingly, we cannot determine whether such radv audits will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, cms' comments in formalized guidance regarding overpayments to ma plans appear to be inconsistent with cms' prior radv audit guidance. these statements, contained in the preamble to cms' final rule release regarding medicare advantage and part d prescription drug benefit program regulations for contract year 2015, appear to equate each medicare advantage risk adjustment data error with an overpayment without reconciliation to the principles underlying the ffs adjuster referenced above. we will continue to work with cms to ensure that ma plans are paid accurately and that payment model principles are in accordance with the requirements of the social security act, which, if not implemented correctly could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members' prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premiums revenue related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net payable of $150 million at december 31, 2016 . reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms's portion of claims costs which exceed the member's out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms's prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the applicable year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms's claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms's claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment which we would have otherwise received as a low-income subsidy or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms's share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. we are also subject to various other governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market 25 or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. the outcome of any current or future governmental or internal investigations cannot be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. nevertheless, it is reasonably possible that any such outcome of litigation, penalties, fines or other sanctions could be substantial, and the outcome of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. certain of these matters could also affect our reputation. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs by, among other things, requiring a minimum benefit ratio on insured products, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with a non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. the provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, imposing a significant new non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments on health insurers, limiting medicare advantage payment rates, stipulating a prescribed minimum ratio for the amount of premiums revenue to be expended on medical costs for insured products, additional mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, requirements that limit the ability of health plans to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, and heightened scrutiny by state and federal regulators of our business practices, including our medicare bid and pricing practices. the health care reform law also specifies benefit design guidelines, limits rating and pricing practices, encourages additional competition (including potential incentives for new market entrants), establishes federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges for individuals and small employers (with up to 100 employees) coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers (subject to federal administrative action), and expands eligibility for medicaid programs (subject to state-by-state implementation of this expansion). in addition, the health care reform law has increased and will continue to increase federal oversight of health plan premium rates and could adversely affect our ability to appropriately adjust health plan premiums on a timely basis. financing for these reforms will come, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us and other health plans and individuals which began in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health care reform law, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, potential legislative changes, including activities to repeal or replace the health care reform law, creates uncertainty for our business, and we cannot predict when, or in what form, such legislative changes may occur. for additional information, please refer to the section entitled, health care reform in item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in this annual report. our continued participation in the federal and state health insurance exchanges, which entail uncertainties associated with mix, volume of business and the operation of premium stabilization programs, which are subject to federal administrative action, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the health care reform law required the establishment of health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers to purchase health insurance that became effective january 1, 2014, with an annual open enrollment period. insurers participating on the health insurance exchanges must offer a minimum level of benefits and are subject to guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. we may be adversely selected by individuals who have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants in this market. in addition, the risk corridor, reinsurance, and risk adjustment provisions of the health care reform law, established to apportion risk for insurers, may not be effective in appropriately mitigating the financial risks related to our products. the risk corridor program is a three- 26 year program, and the department of health and human services (hhs) guidance provides that risk corridor collections over the life of the three year program will first be applied to any shortfalls from previous benefit years before application to current year obligations. on november 10, 2016, the u.s. court of federal claims ruled in favor of the government in one of a series of cases filed by insurers against hhs to collect risk corridor payments, rejecting all of the insurer's statutory, contract and constitutional claims for payment. on november 18, 2016, hhs issued a memorandum indicating a significant funding shortfall for the 2015 coverage year, the second consecutive year of significant shortfalls. given the successful challenge of the risk corridor provisions in court, congressional inquiries into the funding of the risk corridor program, and significant funding shortfalls under the first two years of the program, during the fourth quarter of 2016 we wrote-off our risk corridor receivables. in addition, other regulatory changes to the implementation of the health care reform law that allowed individuals to remain in plans that are not compliant with the health care reform law or to enroll outside of the annual enrollment period may have an adverse effect on our pool of participants in the health insurance exchange. for 2017, we are offering on-exchange individual commercial medical plans in 11 states, a reduction from the 15 states in which we offered on-exchange coverage in 2016. in addition, we discontinued substantially all health care reform law compliant off-exchange individual commercial medical plans in 2017. despite this reduction in our individual commercial membership plans, the above factors, in addition to competitor actions to withdraw from exchanges and/or alter their product offerings, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows if our premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. in addition, audits of our submissions under the risk adjustment program may result in repayment of amounts distributed under the program. any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions used in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows, and we may be unable to adjust our product offerings, geographic footprint, or pricing during any given year in sufficient time to mitigate any such effects. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application, including reductions in medicare advantage payment rates, could increase our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition to the health care reform law, the health care industry in general and health insurance are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation: health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (hitech act) the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers, and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans and providers). the hitech act, one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, significantly broadened the scope of the privacy and security regulations of hipaa. among other requirements, the hitech act and hipaa mandate individual notification in the event of a breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information, 27 provides enhanced penalties for hipaa violations, requires business associates to comply with certain provisions of the hipaa privacy and security rule, and grants enforcement authority to state attorneys general in addition to the hhs office of civil rights. in addition, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. state statutes and regulations vary from state to state and could impose additional penalties. violations of hipaa or applicable federal or state laws or regulations could subject us to significant criminal or civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa and other privacy regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to hhs in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business associates to comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa's provisions and requires hhs to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. corporate practice of medicine and other laws as a corporate entity, humana inc. is not licensed to practice medicine. many states in which we operate through our subsidiaries limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. under management agreements between certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed healthcare providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. we believe that our health services operations comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, and similar issues. however, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these statutes, which could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. anti-kickback, physician self-referral, and other fraud and abuse laws a federal law commonly referred to as the anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of medicare or other governmental health program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease, or order of items or services that are covered by medicare or other federal governmental health programs. because the prohibitions contained in the anti-kickback statute apply to the furnishing of items or services for which payment is made in whole or in part, the anti-kickback statute could be implicated if any portion of an item or service we provide is covered by any of the state or federal health benefit programs described above. violation of these provisions constitutes a felony criminal offense and applicable sanctions could include exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. section 1877 of the social security act, commonly known as the stark law, prohibits physicians, subject to certain exceptions described below, from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity providing designated health services in which the physician, or an immediate family member, has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has entered into a compensation arrangement. these prohibitions, contained in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1993, commonly known as stark ii, amended 28 prior federal physician self-referral legislation known as stark i by expanding the list of designated health services to a total of 11 categories of health services. the professional groups with which we are affiliated provide one or more of these designated health services. persons or entities found to be in violation of the stark law are subject to denial of payment for services furnished pursuant to an improper referral, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. many states also have enacted laws similar in scope and purpose to the anti-kickback statute and, in more limited instances, the stark law, that are not limited to services for which medicare or medicaid payment is made. in addition, most states have statutes, regulations, or professional codes that restrict a physician from accepting various kinds of remuneration in exchange for making referrals. these laws vary from state to state and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. in states that have enacted these statutes, we believe that regulatory authorities and state courts interpreting these statutes may regard federal law under the anti-kickback statute and the stark law as persuasive. we believe that our operations comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, and similar federal or state laws addressing fraud and abuse. these laws are subject to modification and changes in interpretation, and are enforced by authorities vested with broad discretion. we continually monitor developments in this area. if these laws are interpreted in a manner contrary to our interpretation or are reinterpreted or amended, or if new legislation is enacted with respect to healthcare fraud and abuse, illegal remuneration, or similar issues, we may be required to restructure our affected operations to maintain compliance with applicable law. there can be no assurances that any such restructuring will be possible or, if possible, would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. environmental we are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment. if an environmental regulatory agency finds any of our facilities to be in violation of environmental laws, penalties and fines may be imposed for each day of violation and the affected facility could be forced to cease operations. we could also incur other significant costs, such as cleanup costs or claims by third parties, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. although we believe that our environmental practices, including waste handling and disposal practices, are in material compliance with applicable laws, future claims or violations, or changes in environmental laws, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. state regulation of insurance-related products laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: capital adequacy and other licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate increases, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed insurance subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue our acquisition strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which 29 may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, transactions outside of our core business space, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. the failure to successfully integrate acquired entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of our acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. in addition, from time to time, we evaluate alternatives for our businesses that do not meet our strategic, growth or profitability objectives. the divestiture of certain businesses could result, individually or in the aggregate, in the recognition of material losses and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such divestitures on terms favorable to us. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we employ or contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. a key component of our integrated care delivery strategy is to increase the number of providers who share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations, or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate unfavorable contracts with us or place us at a competitive disadvantage, or do not enter into contracts with us that encourage the delivery of quality medical services in a cost-effective manner, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care providers for an actuarially determined, fixed fee per month to provide a basket of required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our pharmacy mail order business competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, internet companies and other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state's board of pharmacy. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations, requiring registration with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of 30 prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the u.s. department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-order pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose us to civil and criminal penalties. changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. it is uncertain whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. regulators have conducted investigations into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our mail-order pharmacy business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our mail-order and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from certain of our licensed subsidiaries is restricted by state insurance regulations. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. certain of our insurance subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, administrative expense reimbursements or other cash transfers to humana inc., and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these insurance subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, or ordinary dividends, is limited based on the entity's level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. dividends from our non-insurance companies such as in our healthcare services segment are generally not restricted by departments of insurance. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. 31 downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. in addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would increase, our sales and earnings could decrease, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, acquisitions, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months, as well as to refinance or repay debt, and repurchase shares. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. 32 our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. prior to 2009, under interest rate swap agreements, we exchanged the fixed interest rate under all of our senior notes for a variable interest rate based on libor using interest rate swap agreements. we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements in 2008. we may re-enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either libor plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2016 or december 31, 2015 . interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with a weighted average s&amp;p credit rating of aa at december 31, 2016 . our net unrealized position decreased $120 million from a net unrealized gain position of $92 million at december 31, 2015 to a net unrealized loss position of $28 million at december 31, 2016 . at december 31, 2016 , we had gross unrealized losses of $196 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates since the time the securities were purchased. there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2016 . while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio's cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 4.4 years as of december 31, 2016 and 4.1 years as of december 31, 2015 . based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $590 million . we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200, and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2016 and 2015 . our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may affect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points once , have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points two times, and have changed by less than 100 basis points seven times. 81 increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in millions) as of december 31, 2016 investment income (a) $ (49 ) $ (44 ) $ (36 ) $ 53 $ 107 $ 162 interest expense (b) 3 3 3 (2 ) (5 ) (9 ) pretax $ (46 ) $ (41 ) $ (33 ) $ 51 $ 102 $ 153 as of december 31, 2015 investment income (a) $ (33 ) $ (27 ) $ (21 ) $ 41 $ 82 $ 124 interest expense (b) 3 3 3 (3 ) (6 ) (9 ) pretax $ (30 ) $ (24 ) $ (18 ) $ 38 $ 76 $ 115 (a) as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , some of our investments had interest rates below 3% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 3% point reduction. (b) the interest rate under our senior notes is fixed. there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2016 or december 31, 2015 . there was $300 million outstanding under our commercial paper program at december 31, 2016 . as of december 31, 2016 , our interest rate under our commercial paper program was less than 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 2% point reduction. 82risk factors 17 risk factors in this 2017 form 10-k for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. aetna merger on july 2, 2015, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, which we refer to in this report as the merger agreement, with aetna inc. and certain wholly owned subsidiaries of aetna inc., which we refer to collectively as 3 aetna, which sets forth the terms and conditions under which we agreed to merge with, and become a wholly owned subsidiary of aetna, a transaction we refer to in this report as the merger. on february 14, 2017, we and aetna agreed to mutually terminate the july 2, 2015 agreement and plan of merger as more fully discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. health care reform the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law, enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. certain significant provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to medicare advantage premiums, the establishment of federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, and the introduction of plan designs based on set actuarial values. in addition, the health care reform law established insurance industry assessments, including an annual health insurance industry fee and a three-year industry wide commercial reinsurance fee. the health care reform law is discussed more fully in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled health care reform in this 2017 form 10-k. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health care reform law, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, potential legislative changes, including activities to repeal or replace the health care reform law, creates uncertainty for our business, and we cannot predict when, or in what form, such legislative changes may occur. we may be unable to adjust our product offerings, geographic footprint, or pricing during any given year such legislative changes occur in sufficient time to mitigate any adverse effects. business segments during the first quarter of 2017, we realigned certain of our businesses among our reportable segments to correspond with internal management reporting changes corresponding to those used by our chief operating decision maker to evaluate results of operations and our previously announced planned exit from the individual commercial medical business on january 1, 2018. additionally, we renamed our group segment to the group and specialty segment, and began presenting the individual commercial business results as a separate segment rather than as part of the retail segment. specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, other supplemental health, and financial protection products, marketed to individuals are now included in the group and specialty segment. specialty health insurance benefits marketed to employer groups continue to be included in the group and specialty segment. as a result of this realignment, our reportable segments now include retail, group and specialty, healthcare services, and individual commercial. prior period segment financial information has been recast to conform to the 2017 presentation. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data for segment financial information. we manage our business with four reportable segments: retail, group and specialty, healthcare services, and individual commercial. in addition, the other businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles. these segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer to assess performance and allocate resources. our products our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. these products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. health maintenance organizations, or hmos, generally require a referral from the member's primary care provider before seeing certain specialty physicians. preferred provider organizations, or ppos, provide members the freedom to choose a health care provider without requiring a referral. however ppos generally require 4 the member to pay a greater portion of the provider's fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the ppo's network. point of service, or pos, plans combine the advantages of hmo plans with the flexibility of ppo plans. in general, pos plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan's network or outside the network. in addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy solutions, provider, and clinical programs, as well as services and capabilities to advance population health. at the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. three core elements of the model are to improve the consumer experience by simplifying the interaction with us, engaging members in clinical programs, and offering assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused. the model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. the discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. our retail segment products this segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the retail segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2017 : retail segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: individual medicare advantage $ 32,720 61.3 % group medicare advantage 5,155 9.7 % medicare stand-alone pdp 3,702 6.9 % total retail medicare 41,577 77.9 % state-based medicaid 2,571 4.8 % medicare supplement 478 0.9 % total premiums 44,626 83.6 % services 10 % total premiums and services revenue $ 44,636 83.6 % medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 30 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. we have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. we believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional fee-for-service medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as medicare ffs. as an alternative to medicare ffs, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may 5 choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under medicare ffs. our medicare advantage, or ma, plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. individual medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, chronic care management, and care coordination, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of medicare ffs, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. most of our medicare pffs plans are network-based products with in and out of network benefits due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. in these areas, we offer medicare pffs plans that have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to medicare ffs payment rates. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms's risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits improvement and protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. cms is phasing-in the process of calculating risk scores using diagnoses data from the risk adjustment processing system, or raps, to diagnoses data from the encounter data system, or eds. the raps process requires ma plans to apply a filter logic based on cms guidelines and only submit claims that satisfy those guidelines. for submissions through eds, cms requires ma plans to submit all the encounter data and cms will apply the risk adjustment filtering logic to determine the risk scores. for 2016, 10% of the risk score was calculated from claims data submitted through eds, increasing to 25% of the risk score calculated from claims data through eds for 2017. in april 2017, cms revised the pace of the phase-in. for 2018, 15% of the risk score will be calculated from claims data submitted through eds. at december 31, 2017 , we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 2,860,800 individual medicare advantage members, including approximately 609,600 members in florida. these florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $7.8 billion , which represented approximately 23.8% of 6 our individual medicare advantage premiums revenue, or 14.6% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2017 . our hmo, ppo, and pffs products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage products have been renewed for 2018 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2018 have been approved. individual medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d, including a pdp offering co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., or the humana-walmart plan. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our pdp bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, titled medicare part d. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp products have been renewed for 2018 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2018 have been approved. we have administered cms's limited income newly eligible transition, or li-net, prescription drug plan program since 2010. this program allows individuals who receive medicare's low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a medicare part d plan. cms temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both medicare and medicaid into the li-net prescription drug plan program, and subsequently transitions each member into a medicare part d plan that may or may not be a humana medicare plan. group medicare advantage and medicare stand-alone pdp we offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace medicare wrap or medicare supplement products with medicare advantage or stand-alone pdps from humana. these products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an employer's post-retirement benefit structure. state-based medicaid contracts our state-based contracts allow us to serve members enrolled in state-based medicaid programs including temporary assistance to needy families, or tanf, long-term support services, or ltss, and dual eligible demonstration programs. tanf is a state and federally funded program that provides cash assistance and supportive services to assist families with children under age 18, helping them achieve economic self-sufficiency. ltss is a state and federally funded program that offers states a broad and flexible set of program design options and refers to the delivery of long-term support services for our members who receive home and community or institution-based services for long-term care. our contracts are generally for three to five year terms. we have contracts to serve medicaid eligible members in florida and kentucky under the tanf program, as well as contracts in florida under the ltss program. our kentucky medicaid contract is subject to a 100% coinsurance contract with caresource management group company, ceding all the risk to caresource. medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. the dual eligible population represents a disproportionate share of medicaid and 7 medicare costs. there were approximately 10.7 million dual eligible individuals in the united states in 2017 , trending upward due to medicaid eligibility expansions and individuals aging into the medicare program. since the enactment of the health care reform law, states are pursuing stand-alone dual eligible cms demonstration programs in which medicare, medicaid, and ltss benefits are more tightly integrated. eligibility for participation in these stand-alone dual eligible demonstration programs may require state-based contractual relationships in existing medicaid programs. we previously had an integrated care program, or icp, medicaid contract in illinois and a stand-alone dual eligible demonstration program in virginia, both of which terminated on december 31, 2017. we continue to serve other dual eligible members enrolled in our medicare advantage and stand-alone prescription drug plans. our group and specialty segment products the group and specialty segment consists of employer group commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits marketed to individuals and employer groups, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and voluntary insurance benefits, as well as administrative services only, or aso products as described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the group and specialty segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2017 : group and specialty segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) external revenue: premiums: fully-insured commercial group $ 5,462 10.2 % specialty 1,310 2.5 % total premiums 6,772 12.7 % services 626 1.2 % total premiums and services revenue $ 7,398 13.9 % intersegment services revenue $ 20 n/a n/a not applicable group commercial coverage our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through hmo, ppo, or pos plans, or self-funded basis. our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government's health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. our administrative services only, or aso, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured hmo, ppo, or pos products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, more than half of our aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a portfolio of voluntary benefit products. we also offer optional benefits such as dental, vision life, and a portfolio of financial protection products to individuals. 8 military services under our tricare contracts with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the dod. under our contracts, we provide administrative services while the federal government retains all of the risk of the cost of health benefits. accordingly, we account for revenues under the current contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. during 2017, we delivered services under the 5 -year t3 south region contract, which expired on december 31, 2017 . on july 21, 2016, we were notified by the defense health agency, or dha, that we were awarded the contract for the new tricare t2017 east region. the t2017 east region contract is a consolidation of the former t3 north and south regions, comprising thirty-two states and approximately six million tricare beneficiaries, with delivery of health care services commencing on january 1, 2018. the t2017 east contract is a 5 -year contract set to expire on december 31, 2022 and is subject to renewals on january 1 of each year during its term at the government's option. our healthcare services segment products the products offered by our healthcare services segment are key to our integrated care delivery model. this segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that offer services including pharmacy solutions, provider services, clinical care services, and predictive modeling and informatics services to other humana businesses, as well as external health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. our intersegment revenue is described in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. the following table presents our services revenue for the healthcare services segment by line of business for the year ended december 31, 2017 : healthcare services segment services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) intersegment revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 20,881 n/a provider services 1,593 n/a clinical care services 1,111 n/a total intersegment revenue $ 23,585 external services revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 80 0.2 % provider services 77 0.1 % clinical care services 181 0.3 % total external services revenue $ 338 0.6 % n/a not applicable pharmacy solutions humana pharmacy solutions , or hps, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. hps also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through humana pharmacy, inc., as well as research services. 9 provider services we operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers, primarily in florida, staffed by primary care providers and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry. we also operate transcend, a medical services organization, or mso, that coordinates medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries primarily in four states. transcend provides resources in care coordination, financial risk management, clinical integration and patient engagement that help physicians improve the patient experience as well as care outcomes. transcend collaborates with physicians, medical groups and integrated delivery systems to successfully transition to value-based care by engaging, partnering and offering practical services and solutions. transcend represents a key component of our integrated care delivery model which we believe is scalable to new markets. in addition, we own a noncontrolling equity interest in mcci holdings, llc, a privately held mso headquartered in miami, florida, that primarily coordinates medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries in florida and texas. programs to enhance the quality of care for members are key elements of our integrated care delivery model. we believe that technology represents a significant opportunity in health care that positively impacts our members. our transcend insights business focuses on population health and wellness capabilities across the sector and serves health care systems, physicians and care teams by leveraging actionable data to help improve patient care. we help care teams and patients transition from a reactive approach to care to one that proactively promotes health and long-term wellness. we have enhanced our health information technology capabilities enabling us to create a more complete view of an individual's health, designed to connect, coordinate and simplify health care while reducing costs. these capabilities include our health care analytics engine, which reviews billions of clinical data points on millions of patients each day to provide members, providers, and payers real-time clinical insights to identify evidence-based gaps-in-care, drug safety alerts and other critical health concerns to improve outcomes. additionally, our technology connects humana and disparate electronic health record systems to enable the exchange of essential health information in real-time to provide physicians and care teams with a single, comprehensive patient view. on june 1, 2015, we completed the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary, concentra inc., or concentra, that delivered occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness services to employees and the general public through its operation of medical centers and worksite medical facilities. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. clinical care services via in-home care, telephonic health counseling/coaching, and remote monitoring, we are actively involved in the care management of our customers with the greatest needs. clinical care services include the operations of humana at home, inc., or humana at home . as a chronic-care provider of in-home care for seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. we focus our deployment of these services in geographies, such as florida, with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions. the clinical support and care provided by humana at home is designed to improve health outcomes and result in a higher number of days members can spend at their homes instead of in an acute care facility. at december 31, 2017 , we have enrolled approximately 794,900 members with complex chronic conditions in a humana chronic care program, reflecting enhanced predictive modeling capabilities and focus on proactive clinical outreach and member engagement, particularly for our medicare advantage membership. we believe these initiatives lead to better health outcomes for our members and lower health care costs. we have committed additional investments in our home care capabilities. on december 19, 2017, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire a 40% minority interest in the kindred at home division of kindred healthcare inc., the nation's largest home health provider and second largest hospice operator. we are committed to the integrated physical and mental health of our members. accordingly, we take a holistic approach to healthcare, offering care management and wellness programs. 10 our care management programs take full advantage of the population health, wellness and clinical applications offered by transcend insights and carehub, our clinical management tool used by providers and care managers across the company to help our members achieve their best health, to offer various levels of support, matching the intensity of the support to the needs of members with ongoing health challenges through telephonic and onsite programs. these programs include personal nurse, chronic condition management, and case management as well as programs supporting maternity, cancer, neonatal intensive care unit, and transplant services. wellness we offer wellness solutions including our go365 wellness and loyalty rewards program, health coaching, employee assistance program, and clinical programs. these programs, when offered collectively to employer customers as our total health product, turn any standard plan of the employer's choosing into an integrated health and well-being solution that encourages participation in these programs. our go365 program provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual's needs and wants. a key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an incentive program. our individual commercial segment products our individual health plans were marketed under the humanaone brand. we offered products both on and off of the public exchange. we offered products on exchanges where we could achieve an affordable cost of care, including hmo offerings and select networks in most markets. our off-exchange products were primarily ppo and pos offerings, including plans issued prior to 2014 that were previously underwritten. policies issued prior to the enactment of the health care reform law on march 23, 2010 were grandfathered policies. grandfathered policies are exempt from most of the requirements of the health care reform law, including mandated benefits. however, our grandfathered plans included provisions that guaranteed renewal of coverage for as long as the plan is continued and the individual chooses to renew. policies issued between march 23, 2010 and december 31, 2013 were required to conform to the health care reform law, including mandated benefits, upon renewal at various transition dates between 2016 and 2017 depending on the state. we discontinued substantially all health care reform law compliant off-exchange individual commercial medical plans effective january 1, 2017. we exited our remaining individual commercial medical business effective january 1, 2018 as more fully described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. other businesses other businesses primarily includes our closed block of long-term care insurance policies described below. total premiums and services revenue for our other businesses was $43 million , or 0.1% of consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2017 . we have a non-strategic closed block of approximately 29,800 long-term care insurance policies associated with our acquisition of kmg america corporation in 2007. long-term care insurance policies are intended to protect the insured from the cost of long-term care services including those provided by nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and adult day care as well as home health care services. no new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. on november 6, 2017 , we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the stock of our wholly-owned subsidiary, kmg america corporation, or kmg, to continental general insurance company, or cgic, a texas-based insurance company wholly owned by hc2 holdings, inc., a diversified holding company. kmg's subsidiary, kanawha insurance company, or kic, includes our closed block of non-strategic commercial long-term care insurance policies. for a detailed discussion of the definitive agreement refer to note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. 11 membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2017 , by market and product: retail segment group and specialty segment (in thousands) individual medicare advantage group medicare advantage medicare stand- alone pdp medicare supplement state- based contracts fully- insured commercial group aso military services individual commercial other businesses total percent of total florida 609.6 16.0 388.7 7.2 339.7 124.6 34.0 13.9 1,533.7 11.0 % texas 225.0 189.6 331.9 8.7 201.3 23.8 5.2 985.5 7.0 % kentucky 79.7 58.9 221.6 5.6 109.6 144.4 1.5 621.3 4.4 % california 64.8 0.4 490.5 19.5 575.2 4.1 % ohio 119.3 20.3 194.9 47.7 50.6 51.2 1.2 485.2 3.5 % illinois 95.1 22.0 190.9 4.5 12.8 59.9 76.0 6.4 467.6 3.3 % georgia 113.9 1.8 135.9 10.5 163.7 27.6 1.7 455.1 3.3 % missouri/kansas 81.7 5.0 228.0 8.5 51.3 10.3 14.0 398.8 2.9 % tennessee 146.1 3.9 119.2 4.4 42.3 10.1 57.6 383.6 2.7 % louisiana 158.5 11.6 61.3 1.9 69.0 9.8 19.8 331.9 2.4 % north carolina 142.4 0.4 184.5 0.7 328.0 2.3 % wisconsin 59.9 10.9 121.7 5.7 84.2 30.1 312.5 2.2 % virginia 116.6 2.6 158.3 8.6 7.6 293.7 2.1 % indiana 93.0 7.0 146.6 8.2 20.1 12.3 287.2 2.1 % michigan 49.1 12.5 150.3 3.0 3.7 0.4 4.9 223.9 1.6 % pennsylvania 42.8 0.6 166.1 4.6 214.1 1.5 % arizona 59.2 0.2 100.1 4.1 29.0 2.8 195.4 1.4 % south carolina 88.5 0.4 89.0 5.0 182.9 1.3 % military services 3,081.8 3,081.8 22.0 % others 515.6 77.3 1,828.6 77.5 88.4 25.9 2.6 29.8 2,645.7 18.9 % totals 2,860.8 441.4 5,308.1 235.9 360.1 1,097.7 458.7 3,081.8 128.8 29.8 14,003.1 100.0 % provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we employ or with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into various care management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. we have available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. we also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. 12 we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate for diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. the terms of our contracts with hospitals and physicians may also vary between medicare and commercial business. a significant portion of our medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to medicare reimbursement levels and methodologies. capitation we offer providers a continuum of opportunities to increase the integration of care and offer assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. these include performance bonuses, shared savings and shared risk relationships. for some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership, primarily hmo membership. under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated member. we believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery model at the core of our strategy. our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries. at december 31, 2017 , approximately 1,102,100 members, or 7.9% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts, including 903,500 individual medicare advantage members, or 31.6% of our total individual medicare advantage membership. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician's financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we typically process all claims and monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we delegated claim processing functions under capitation arrangements covering approximately 170,700 hmo members, including 155,500 individual medicare advantage members, or 17.2% of the 903,500 individual medicare advantage members covered under risk-based contracts at december 31, 2017 , with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating the members' health care benefits. capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the underlying claims experience was approximately $1.4 billion , or 3.2% of total benefits expense, for the year ended december 31, 2017 . we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. 13 accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. providers participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses, review of their malpractice liability claims histories, review of their board certifications, if applicable, and review of applicable quality information. a committee, composed of a peer group of providers, reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care, and urac. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. additionally, all products sold on the federal and state marketplaces are required to be accredited. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa reviews our compliance based on standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in most of our commercial, medicare and medicaid hmo/pos markets with enough history and membership, and for many of our ppo markets. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2017 , we employed approximately 1,600 sales representatives, as well as approximately 1,300 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare in our retail segment, individual commercial health insurance in our individual commercial segment, and specialty products in our group and specialty segment, including making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we have a marketing arrangement with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart, for our individual medicare stand-alone pdp offering. we also sell group medicare advantage products through large employers. in addition, we market our medicare and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products through licensed independent brokers and agents. for our medicare products, commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure, regulated in structure and amount by cms. for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products, we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. in our group and specialty segment, individuals may become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer's or group's exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs 14 and expectations of their employees or members. in addition, we offer plans to employer groups through private exchanges. employers can give their employees a set amount of money and then direct them to a private exchange where employees can shop for a health plan and other benefits based on what the employer has selected as options. we use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, and employees to sell our group products. many of our larger employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products. underwriting since 2014, the health care reform law requires all individual and certain group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments. accordingly, newly issued individual and certain group health plans are not subject to underwriting. further, underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos. many of our competitors have a larger membership base and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in item 1a. risk factors in this 2017 form 10-k. government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation's health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see item 1a. risk factors in this 2017 form 10-k. 15 certain other services captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers' compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service. through intercompany service agreements approved, if required, by state regulatory authorities, humana inc., our parent company, charges a management fee for reimbursement of certain centralized services provided to its subsidiaries. employees as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately 45,900 employees and approximately 2,000 additional medical professionals working under management agreements primarily between us and affiliated physician-owned associations. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 16 item 1a. risk factors risks relating to certain proposed transactions certain proposed transactions, including the divestiture of our subsidiary, kmg, and the acquisition of a minority interest in kindred healthcare, inc.'s kindred at home division, are subject to various closing conditions, including various regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, as well as other uncertainties, and there can be no assurances as to whether and when it may be completed. on november 6, 2017, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the stock of our wholly-owned subsidiary, kmg to cgic, a texas-based insurance company wholly owned by hc2 holdings, inc., a diversified holding company. kmg's subsidiary, kic, includes our closed block of non-strategic commercial long-term care insurance policies that serves approximately 29,800 policyholders. on december 19, 2017, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire a 40% minority interest in the kindred at home division of kindred healthcare, inc. consummation of each of these transactions involves certain risks, including, among other things, the timing to consummate the transaction, the risk that a condition to closing of the transaction may not be satisfied, the risk that required regulatory approvals for the transaction are not obtained, are delayed or are subject to conditions that are not anticipated, the risk that we may not recognize all or a portion of the expected benefits from either or both transactions, including tax benefits and expected synergies, and the risk of indemnification exposure under the contractual agreements to effect the transactions. risks relating to our business if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, if we are unable to implement clinical initiatives to provide a better health care experience for our members, lower costs and appropriately document the risk profile of our members, or if our estimates of benefits expense are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefits expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. we continually review these estimates, however these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. any reserve, including a premium deficiency reserve, may be insufficient. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves, including premium deficiency reserves where appropriate. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services; increased cost of such services; increased use or cost of prescription drugs, including specialty prescription drugs; the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; our membership mix; 17 variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including any that result from the health care reform law. key to our operational strategy is the implementation of clinical initiatives that we believe provide a better health care experience for our members, lower the cost of healthcare services delivered to our members, and appropriately document the risk profile of our members. our profitability and competitiveness depend in large part on our ability to appropriately manage health care costs through, among other things, the application of medical management programs such as our chronic care management program. in addition, we also estimate costs associated with long-duration insurance policies including long-term care, life insurance, annuities, and certain health and other supplemental insurance policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. at policy issuance, these future policy benefit reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, and maintenance expense assumptions. because these policies have long-term claim payout periods, there is a greater risk of significant variability in claims costs, either positive or negative. our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. the risk of a deviation of the actual interest, morbidity, mortality, and maintenance expense assumptions from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care insurance policies. we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care insurance policies, and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. however, to the extent premium rate increases or loss experience vary from the assumptions we have locked in, additional future adjustments to reserves could be required. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage our operating expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, any costs associated with exiting products, additional investment in new products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs, state-based contracts, participation in health insurance exchanges, and expansion of clinical capabilities as part of our integrated care delivery model), investments in health and well-being product offerings, acquisitions, new taxes and assessments (including the non-deductible health insurance industry fee), and implementation of regulatory requirements may increase our operating expenses. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable, or effectively manage our operating expenses, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program or competitors in the delivery of health care services. we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform, and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. 18 the policies and decisions of the federal and state governments regarding the medicare, military and medicaid programs in which we participate have a substantial impact on our profitability. these governmental policies and decisions, which we cannot predict with certainty, directly shape the premiums or other revenues to us under the programs, the eligibility and enrollment of our members, the services we provide to our members, and our administrative, health care services, and other costs associated with these programs. legislative or regulatory actions, such as those resulting in a reduction in premium payments to us, an increase in our cost of administrative and health care services, or additional fees, taxes or assessments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose membership with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives and our state-based contracts strategy, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in these products. in addition, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our star ratings in future years. our future performance depends in large part upon our ability to execute our strategy, including opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare programs, the successful implementation of our integrated care delivery model and our strategy with respect to state-based contracts, including those covering members dually eligible for the medicare and medicaid programs. we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we offer both stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plans with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer a medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare products is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare products in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in medicare products. there is significant concentration of our revenues in medicare products, with approximately 78% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2017 generated from our medicare products, including 15% derived from our individual medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. the health care reform law created a federal medicare-medicaid coordination office to serve dual eligibles. this medicare-medicaid coordination office has initiated a series of state demonstration projects to experiment with better coordination of care between medicare and medicaid. depending upon the results of those demonstration projects, cms may change the way in which dual eligibles are serviced. if we are unable to implement our strategic initiatives to address the dual eligibles opportunity, including our participation in state-based contracts, or if our initiatives are not successful at attracting or retaining dual eligible members, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial products, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including go365 and other wellness products, growth of our specialty products such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, the adoption of new technologies, development of adjacent businesses, and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. 19 the achievement of star ratings of 4-star or higher qualifies medicare advantage plans for premium bonuses. our medicare advantage plans' operating results may be significantly affected by their star ratings. despite our operational efforts to improve our star ratings, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our star ratings in future years. in addition, audits of our performance for past or future periods may result in downgrades to our star ratings. accordingly, our plans may not be eligible for full level quality bonuses, which could adversely affect the benefits such plans can offer, reduce membership and/or reduce profit margins. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have reduced the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. there can be no assurance that our information technology, or it, process will successfully improve existing systems, develop new systems to support our expanding operations, integrate new systems, protect our proprietary information, defend against cybersecurity attacks, or improve service levels. in addition, there can be no assurance that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we are unable to defend our information technology security systems against cybersecurity attacks or prevent other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or in the unintended dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could be exposed to significant regulatory fines or penalties, liability or reputational damage, or experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or a third-party. a cybersecurity attack may penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, cause 20 shutdowns, or deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our systems. a cybersecurity attack that bypasses our it security systems successfully could materially affect us due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property, operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our it systems, or negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our members, customers, providers, and other stakeholders. the costs to eliminate or address cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities before or after an incident could be substantial. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential members. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information about us or our members or other third-parties, could expose our associates' or members' private information and result in the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in significant regulatory fines or penalties, litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. we are involved in various legal actions and governmental and internal investigations, any of which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages or changes in our business practices. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are or may become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including breach of contract actions, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, stockholder suits and other securities laws claims, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management, and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers' alleged malpractice; claims arising from any adverse medical consequences resulting from our recommendations about the appropriateness of providers' proposed medical treatment plans for patients; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation or non-acceptance or termination of provider contracts or provider contract disputes relating to rate adjustments resulting from the balance budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985, as amended (commonly referred to as sequestration ); disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that we, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government including, among other allegations, resulting from coding and review practices under the medicare risk-adjustment model; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy; and 21 professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may materially adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services or otherwise change our business practices, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see "legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters" in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these matters with certainty. as a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. these programs accounted for approximately 84% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2017 . these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2017 , under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 609,600 individual medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 15% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2017 . the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our military services business, which accounted for approximately 1% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2017 , primarily consisted of the t3 tricare south region contract. the 5 -year t3 south region contract expired on december 31, 2017 . on july 21, 2016, we were notified by the defense health agency, or dha, that we were awarded the contract for the new tricare t2017 east region. the t2017 east region contract is a consolidation of the former t3 north and south regions, comprising thirty-two states and approximately six million tricare beneficiaries, with delivery of health care services commencing on january 1, 2018. the loss of the tricare t2017 east region contract may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. as a government contractor, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that the government contractor submitted false claims to the government. litigation of this nature is filed under seal to allow the government an opportunity to investigate and to decide if it wishes to intervene and assume control of the litigation. if the government 22 does not intervene, the lawsuit is unsealed, and the individual may continue to prosecute the action on his or her own. cms uses a risk-adjustment model which adjusts premiums paid to medicare advantage, or ma, plans according to health status of covered members. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits improvement and protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more where a plan's membership has higher expected costs. under this model, rates paid to ma plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on our estimated cost of providing standard medicare-covered benefits to an enrollee with a "national average risk profile." that baseline payment amount is adjusted to reflect the health status of our enrolled membership. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all ma plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses the diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to ma plans, which cms adjusts for coding pattern differences between the health plans and the government fee-for-service program. we generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to cms as the basis for our payment received from cms under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. we also rely on these providers to document appropriately all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. in addition, we conduct medical record reviews as part of our data and payment accuracy compliance efforts, to more accurately reflect diagnosis conditions under the risk adjustment model. these compliance efforts include the internal contract level audits described in more detail below, as well as ordinary course reviews of our internal business processes. cms is phasing-in the process of calculating risk scores using diagnoses data from the risk adjustment processing system, or raps, to diagnoses data from the encounter data system, or eds. the raps process requires ma plans to apply a filter logic based on cms guidelines and only submit claims that satisfy those guidelines. for submissions through eds, cms requires ma plans to submit all the encounter data and cms will apply the risk adjustment filtering logic to determine the risk scores. for 2016, 10% of the risk score was calculated from claims data submitted through eds, increasing to 25% of the risk score calculated from claims data through eds for 2017. in april 2017, cms revised the pace of the phase-in. for 2018, 15% of the risk score will be calculated from claims data submitted through eds. the phase-in from raps to eds could result in different risk scores from each dataset as a result of plan processing issues, cms processing issues, or filtering logic differences between raps and eds, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. cms is continuing to perform audits of various companies' selected ma contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. we refer to these audits as risk-adjustment data validation audits, or radv audits. radv audits review medical records in an attempt to validate provider medical record documentation and coding practices which influence the calculation of premium payments to ma plans. in 2012, cms released a notice of final payment error calculation methodology for part c medicare advantage risk adjustment data validation (radv) contract-level audits. the payment error calculation methodology provides that, in calculating the economic impact of audit results for an ma contract, if any, the results of the radv audit sample will be extrapolated to the entire ma contract after a comparison of the audit results to a similar audit of medicare ffs (we refer to the process of accounting for errors in ffs claims as the "ffs adjuster"). this comparison of radv audit results to the ffs error rate is necessary to determine the economic impact, if any, of radv audit results because the government used the medicare ffs program data set, including any attendant errors that are present in that data set, to estimate the costs of various health status conditions and to set the resulting adjustments to ma plans' payment rates. cms already makes other adjustments to payment rates based on a comparison of coding pattern differences between ma plans and medicare ffs data (such as for frequency of coding for certain diagnoses in ma plan data versus the medicare ffs program dataset). the final radv extrapolation methodology, including the first application of extrapolated audit results to determine audit settlements, is expected to be applied to radv contract level audits conducted for contract 23 year 2011 and subsequent years. cms is currently conducting radv contract level audits for contract years 2011, 2012, and 2013 in which two, five and five of our medicare advantage plans are being audited, respectively. per cms guidance, selected ma contracts will be notified of an audit at some point after the close of the final reconciliation for the payment year being audited. estimated audit settlements are recorded as a reduction of premiums revenue in our consolidated statements of income, based upon available information. we perform internal contract level audits based on the radv audit methodology prescribed by cms. included in these internal contract level audits is an audit of our private fee-for service business which we used to represent a proxy of the ffs adjuster which has not yet been released. we based our accrual of estimated audit settlements for each contract year on the results of these internal contract level audits and update our estimates as each audit is completed. estimates derived from these results were not material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. we report the results of these internal contract level audits to cms, including identified overpayments, if any. however, as indicated, we are awaiting additional guidance from cms regarding the ffs adjuster. accordingly, we cannot determine whether such radv audits will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, as part of our internal compliance efforts, we routinely perform ordinary course reviews of our internal business processes related to, among other things, our risk coding and data submissions in connection with the risk-adjustment model. these reviews may also result in the identification of errors and the submission of corrections to cms, that may, either individually or in the aggregate, be material. as such, these ordinary course reviews may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, cms' comments in formalized guidance regarding overpayments to ma plans appear to be inconsistent with cms' prior radv audit guidance. these statements, contained in the preamble to cms' final rule release regarding medicare advantage and part d prescription drug benefit program regulations for contract year 2015, appear to equate each medicare advantage risk adjustment data error with an overpayment without reconciliation to the principles underlying the ffs adjuster referenced above. we will continue to work with cms to ensure that ma plans are paid accurately and that payment model principles are in accordance with the requirements of the social security act, which, if not implemented correctly could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members' prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premiums revenue related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net payable of $279 million and $150 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms's portion of claims costs which exceed the member's out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms's prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the applicable year. 24 settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms's claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms's claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment which we would have otherwise received as a low-income subsidy or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms's share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. we are also subject to various other governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. the outcome of any current or future governmental or internal investigations cannot be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. nevertheless, it is reasonably possible that any such outcome of litigation, penalties, fines or other sanctions could be substantial, and the outcome of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. certain of these matters could also affect our reputation. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs by, among other things, requiring a minimum benefit ratio on insured products, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with a non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. the provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, imposing a significant new non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments on health insurers, limiting medicare advantage payment rates, stipulating a prescribed minimum ratio for the amount of premiums revenue to be expended on medical costs for insured products, additional mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, requirements that limit the ability of health plans to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, and heightened scrutiny by state and federal regulators of our business practices, including our medicare bid and pricing practices. the health care reform law also specifies benefit design guidelines, limits rating and pricing practices, encourages additional competition (including potential incentives for new market entrants), establishes federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges for individuals and small employers (with up to 100 employees) coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers (subject to federal administrative action), and expands eligibility for medicaid programs (subject to state-by-state implementation of this expansion). financing for these reforms come, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us and other health plans and individuals which began in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health care reform law, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, potential legislative changes, including activities to 25 repeal or replace the health care reform law, creates uncertainty for our business, and we cannot predict when, or in what form, such legislative changes may occur. for additional information, please refer to the section entitled, health care reform in item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in this annual report. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application, including reductions in medicare advantage payment rates, could increase our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition to the health care reform law, the health care industry in general and health insurance are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation: health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (hitech act) the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers, and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans and providers). the hitech act, one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, significantly broadened the scope of the privacy and security regulations of hipaa. among other requirements, the hitech act and hipaa mandate individual notification in the event of a breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information, provides enhanced penalties for hipaa violations, requires business associates to comply with certain provisions of the hipaa privacy and security rule, and grants enforcement authority to state attorneys general in addition to the hhs office of civil rights. in addition, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. state statutes and regulations vary from state to state and could impose additional penalties. violations of hipaa or applicable federal or state laws or regulations could subject us to significant criminal or civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa and other privacy regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to hhs in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business 26 associates to comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa's provisions and requires hhs to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. corporate practice of medicine and other laws as a corporate entity, humana inc. is not licensed to practice medicine. many states in which we operate through our subsidiaries limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. under management agreements between certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed healthcare providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. we believe that our health services operations comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, and similar issues. however, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these statutes, which could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. anti-kickback, physician self-referral, and other fraud and abuse laws a federal law commonly referred to as the anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of medicare or other governmental health program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease, or order of items or services that are covered by medicare or other federal governmental health programs. because the prohibitions contained in the anti-kickback statute apply to the furnishing of items or services for which payment is made in whole or in part, the anti-kickback statute could be implicated if any portion of an item or service we provide is covered by any of the state or federal health benefit programs described above. violation of these provisions constitutes a felony criminal offense and applicable sanctions could include exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. section 1877 of the social security act, commonly known as the stark law, prohibits physicians, subject to certain exceptions described below, from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity providing designated health services in which the physician, or an immediate family member, has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has entered into a compensation arrangement. these prohibitions, contained in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1993, commonly known as stark ii, amended prior federal physician self-referral legislation known as stark i by expanding the list of designated health services to a total of 11 categories of health services. the professional groups with which we are affiliated provide one or more of these designated health services. persons or entities found to be in violation of the stark law are subject to denial of payment for services furnished pursuant to an improper referral, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. many states also have enacted laws similar in scope and purpose to the anti-kickback statute and, in more limited instances, the stark law, that are not limited to services for which medicare or medicaid payment is made. in addition, most states have statutes, regulations, or professional codes that restrict a physician from accepting various kinds of remuneration in exchange for making referrals. these laws vary from state to state and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. in states that have enacted these statutes, we believe that regulatory authorities and state courts interpreting these statutes may regard federal law under the anti-kickback statute and the stark law as persuasive. we believe that our operations comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, and similar federal or state laws addressing fraud and abuse. these laws are subject to modification and changes in interpretation, and are enforced by authorities vested with broad discretion. we continually monitor developments in this area. if these laws are interpreted in a manner contrary to our interpretation or are reinterpreted or amended, or if new legislation is enacted with respect to healthcare fraud and abuse, illegal remuneration, or similar issues, we may be required to restructure 27 our affected operations to maintain compliance with applicable law. there can be no assurances that any such restructuring will be possible or, if possible, would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. environmental we are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment. if an environmental regulatory agency finds any of our facilities to be in violation of environmental laws, penalties and fines may be imposed for each day of violation and the affected facility could be forced to cease operations. we could also incur other significant costs, such as cleanup costs or claims by third parties, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. although we believe that our environmental practices, including waste handling and disposal practices, are in material compliance with applicable laws, future claims or violations, or changes in environmental laws, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. state regulation of insurance-related products laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: capital adequacy and other licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate increases, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed insurance subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue our acquisition strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, transactions outside of our core business space, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. the failure to successfully integrate acquired entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of our acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. in addition, from time to time, we evaluate alternatives for our businesses that do not meet our strategic, growth or profitability objectives. the divestiture of certain businesses could result, individually or in the aggregate, in the recognition of material losses and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such divestitures on terms favorable to us. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we employ or contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. a key component of our integrated care delivery strategy is to increase the number of providers who share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. 28 in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations, or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate unfavorable contracts with us or place us at a competitive disadvantage, or do not enter into contracts with us that encourage the delivery of quality medical services in a cost-effective manner, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care providers for an actuarially determined, fixed fee per month to provide a basket of required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our pharmacy mail order business competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, internet companies and other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state's board of pharmacy. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations, requiring registration with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the u.s. department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-order pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose us to civil and criminal penalties. changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. it is uncertain whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it 29 has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. regulators have conducted investigations into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our mail-order pharmacy business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our mail-order and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from certain of our licensed subsidiaries is restricted by state insurance regulations. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. certain of our insurance subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, administrative expense reimbursements or other cash transfers to humana inc., and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these insurance subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, or ordinary dividends, is limited based on the entity's level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. dividends from our non-insurance companies such as in our healthcare services segment are generally not restricted by departments of insurance. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. in addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) 30 request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would increase, our sales and earnings could decrease, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, acquisitions, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months, as well as to refinance or repay debt, and repurchase shares. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 78 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. prior to 2009, under interest rate swap agreements, we exchanged the fixed interest rate under all of our senior notes for a variable interest rate based on libor using interest rate swap agreements. we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements in 2008. we may re-enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either libor plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2017 or december 31, 2016 . interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with a weighted average s&amp;p credit rating of aa at december 31, 2017 . our net unrealized position increased $226 million from a net unrealized loss position of $28 million at december 31, 2016 to a net unrealized gain position of $198 million at december 31, 2017 . at december 31, 2017 , we had gross unrealized losses of $88 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates since the time the securities were purchased. there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2017 . while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio's cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 4.1 years as of december 31, 2017 and 4.4 years as of december 31, 2016 . based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $697 million . we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200, and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may affect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points once , have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points once , and have changed by less than 100 basis points eight times. 78 increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in millions) as of december 31, 2017 investment income (a) $ (87 ) $ (83 ) $ (67 ) $ 67 $ 134 $ 202 interest expense (b) 2 2 2 (2 ) (3 ) (5 ) pretax $ (85 ) $ (81 ) $ (65 ) $ 65 $ 131 $ 197 as of december 31, 2016 investment income (a) $ (49 ) $ (44 ) $ (36 ) $ 53 $ 107 $ 162 interest expense (b) 3 3 3 (2 ) (5 ) (9 ) pretax $ (46 ) $ (41 ) $ (33 ) $ 51 $ 102 $ 153 (a) as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , some of our investments had interest rates below 3% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 3% point reduction. (b) the interest rate under our senior notes is fixed. there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2017 or december 31, 2016 . there was $150 million outstanding under our commercial paper program at december 31, 2017 . as of december 31, 2017 , our interest rate under our commercial paper program was less than 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 2% point reduction. 79risk factors 17 risk factors in this 2018 form 10-k for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. 3 business segments we manage our business with four reportable segments: retail, group and specialty, healthcare services, and individual commercial. in addition, the other businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles. these segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer to assess performance and allocate resources. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data for segment financial information. our products our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. these products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. health maintenance organizations, or hmos, include comprehensive managed care benefits generally through a participating network of physicians, hospitals, and other providers. preferred provider organizations, or ppos, provide members the freedom to choose any health care provider. however ppos generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider's fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the ppo's network. point of service, or pos, plans combine the advantages of hmo plans with the flexibility of ppo plans. in general, pos plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan's network or outside the network. in addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy solutions, provider, and clinical programs, as well as services and capabilities to advance population health. at the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. three core elements of the model are to improve the consumer experience by simplifying the interaction with us, engaging members in clinical programs, and offering assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused. the model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. the discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. our retail segment products this segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the retail segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2018 : retail segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: individual medicare advantage $ 35,656 63.2 % group medicare advantage 6,103 10.8 % medicare stand-alone pdp 3,584 6.4 % total retail medicare 45,343 80.4 % state-based medicaid 2,255 4.0 % medicare supplement 510 0.9 % total premiums 48,108 85.3 % services 11 % total premiums and services revenue $ 48,119 85.3 % 4 medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 30 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. we have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. we believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional fee-for-service medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as medicare ffs. as an alternative to medicare ffs, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under medicare ffs. our medicare advantage, or ma, plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. individual medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, chronic care management, and care coordination, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of medicare ffs, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. most of our medicare pffs plans are network-based products with in and out of network benefits due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. in these areas, we offer medicare pffs plans that have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to medicare ffs payment rates. 5 cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms's risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits improvement and protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. cms is phasing-in the process of calculating risk scores using diagnoses data from the risk adjustment processing system, or raps, to diagnoses data from the encounter data system, or eds. the raps process requires ma plans to apply a filter logic based on cms guidelines and only submit diagnoses that satisfy those guidelines. for submissions through eds, cms requires ma plans to submit all the encounter data and cms will apply the risk adjustment filtering logic to determine the risk scores. for 2018, 15% of the risk score was calculated from claims data submitted through eds. in 2019 and 2020 cms will increase that percentage to 25% and 50%, respectively. for more information refer to note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data and item 1a. - risk factors. at december 31, 2018 , we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 3,064,000 individual medicare advantage members, including approximately 636,800 members in florida. these florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $8.2 billion , which represented approximately 23.0% of our individual medicare advantage premiums revenue, or 14.6% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2018 . our hmo, ppo, and pffs products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage products have been renewed for 2019 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2019 have been approved. individual medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d, including a pdp offering co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., or the humana-walmart plan. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our pdp bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, titled medicare part d. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp products have been renewed for 2019 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2019 have been approved. we have administered cms's limited income newly eligible transition, or li-net, prescription drug plan program since 2010. this program allows individuals who receive medicare's low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a medicare part d plan. cms temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both medicare and medicaid into the li-net prescription drug plan program, and subsequently transitions each member into a medicare part d plan that may or may not be a humana medicare plan. 6 group medicare advantage and medicare stand-alone pdp we offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace medicare wrap or medicare supplement products with medicare advantage or stand-alone pdps from humana. these products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an employer's post-retirement benefit structure. state-based medicaid contracts our state-based contracts allow us to serve members enrolled in state-based medicaid programs including temporary assistance to needy families, or tanf, aged, blind, and disabled, or abd, long-term support services, or ltss, and the cms financial alignment dual eligible demonstration programs. tanf and abd programs are traditional medicaid programs that are state and federally funded and provide cash assistance and supportive services to assist qualifying aged, blind, or disabled individuals, as well as families with children under age 18, helping them achieve economic self-sufficiency. ltss is a state and federally funded program that offers states a broad and flexible set of program design options and refers to the delivery of long-term support services for our members who receive home and community or institution-based services for long-term care. our contracts are generally for three to five year terms. we have contracts to serve medicaid eligible members in florida and kentucky under traditional programs, as well as contracts in florida under the ltss program. our kentucky medicaid contract is subject to a 100% coinsurance contract with caresource management group company, ceding all the risk to caresource. medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. the dual eligible population represents a disproportionate share of medicaid and medicare costs. states require special coordinating contracts for plans to offer medicare advantage dual eligible special needs plans, or d-snps. these largely operate separate from traditional medicaid and ltss programs. some states are moving to support the dual eligible population by linking d-snp participation to enrollment in a plan that also participates in a state-based medicaid program to coordinate and integrate both medicare and medicaid benefits. beginning in 2021, based on new federal requirements, d-snps will be required to more fully integrate medicare and medicaid benefits and states will have authority to require linkages to state-based traditional medicaid and/or ltss contracts or alternatively, allow d-snps to operate without a link to such state-based contracts while meeting additional coordination standards; cms has yet to finalize regulations. we currently serve dual eligible members under the cms stand-alone dual eligible demonstration program in illinois, and continue to serve other dual eligible members enrolled in our medicare advantage and stand-alone prescription drug plans. 7 our group and specialty segment products the group and specialty segment consists of employer group commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits marketed to individuals and employer groups, including dental, vision and life insurance benefits, as well as administrative services only, or aso products as described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the group and specialty segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2018 : group and specialty segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) external revenue: premiums: fully-insured commercial group $ 5,444 9.7 % specialty 1,359 2.4 % total premiums 6,803 12.1 % services 835 1.5 % total premiums and services revenue $ 7,638 13.6 % intersegment services revenue $ 18 n/a n/a not applicable group commercial coverage our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through hmo, ppo, or pos plans, or self-funded basis. our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government's health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. our administrative services only, or aso, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured hmo, ppo, or pos products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, substantially all of our aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, and life products. we also offer optional benefits such as dental and vision to individuals. 8 military services under our tricare contracts with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the dod. under our contracts, we provide administrative services while the federal government retains all of the risk of the cost of health benefits. accordingly, we account for revenues under the current contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. on january 1, 2018, we began to deliver services under the t2017 east region contract. the t2017 east region contract is a consolidation of the former t3 north and south regions, comprising thirty-two states and approximately 6 million tricare beneficiaries. the t2017 east region contract is a 5 -year contract set to expire on december 31, 2022 and is subject to renewals on january 1 of each year during its term at the government's option. our healthcare services segment products the products offered by our healthcare services segment are key to our integrated care delivery model. this segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that offer services including pharmacy solutions, provider services, clinical care services, and predictive modeling and informatics services to other humana businesses, as well as external health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. our intersegment revenue is described in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. the following table presents our services revenue for the healthcare services segment by line of business for the year ended december 31, 2018 : healthcare services segment services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) intersegment revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 20,514 n/a provider services 1,994 n/a clinical care services 662 n/a total intersegment revenue $ 23,170 external services revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 203 0.4 % provider services 228 0.4 % clinical care services 176 0.3 % total external services revenue $ 607 1.1 % n/a not applicable pharmacy solutions humana pharmacy solutions , or hps, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. hps also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through humana pharmacy, inc. provider services we operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers in a number of states, primarily in florida and texas, staffed by primary care providers and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry. our care delivery subsidiaries operate our medical center business through both employed physicians and care providers, and through third party management service organizations with whom we contract to arrange for and manage certain clinical services. 9 we also operate transcend, a medical services organization, or mso, that coordinates medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries primarily in four states. transcend provides resources in care coordination, financial risk management, clinical integration and patient engagement that help physicians improve the patient experience as well as care outcomes. transcend collaborates with physicians, medical groups and integrated delivery systems to successfully transition to value-based care by engaging, partnering and offering practical services and solutions. transcend represents a key component of our integrated care delivery model which we believe is scalable to new markets. during 2018, we acquired the remaining equity interest in mcci holdings, llc, or mcci, a privately held management service organization and healthcare provider headquartered in miami, florida, that primarily coordinates medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries in florida and texas. in addition, during 2018, we acquired family physicians group, or fpg, which serves medicare advantage and managed medicaid hmo patients in greater orlando, florida with a footprint that includes clinics located in lake, orange, osceola and seminole counties. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. clinical care services via in-home care, telephonic health counseling/coaching, and remote monitoring, we are actively involved in the care management of our customers with the greatest needs. clinical care services include the operations of humana at home, inc., or humana at home . as a chronic-care provider of in-home care for seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. we focus our deployment of these services in geographies with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions. the clinical support and care provided by humana at home is designed to improve health outcomes and result in a higher number of days members can spend at their homes instead of in an acute care facility. at december 31, 2018 , we have enrolled approximately 716,000 members, with complex chronic conditions participating in a humana chronic care program, reflecting enhanced predictive modeling capabilities and focus on proactive clinical outreach and member engagement, particularly for our medicare advantage membership. these members may not be unique to each program since members have the ability to enroll in multiple programs. we believe these initiatives lead to better health outcomes for our members and lower health care costs. we have committed additional investments in our home care capabilities with our acquisition of a 40% minority interest in kindred at home, inc., or kindred at home, and curo health services, or curo, which combined creates the nation's largest home health and hospice provider with 65% overlap with our individual medicare advantage business. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. we are committed to the integrated physical and mental health of our members. accordingly, we take a holistic approach to healthcare, offering care management and wellness programs. these programs use our capabilities that enable us to create a more complete view of an individual's health, designed to connect, coordinate and simplify health care while reducing costs. these capabilities include our health care analytics engine, which reviews billions of clinical data points on millions of patients each day to provide members, providers, and payers real-time clinical insights to identify evidence-based gaps-in-care, drug safety alerts and other critical health concerns to improve outcomes. additionally, our technology connects humana and disparate electronic health record systems to enable the exchange of essential health information in real-time to provide physicians and care teams with a single, comprehensive patient view. our care management programs take full advantage of the population health, wellness and clinical applications offered by carehub, our clinical management tool used by providers and care managers across the company to help our members achieve their best health, to offer various levels of support, matching the intensity of the support to the needs of members with ongoing health challenges through telephonic and onsite programs. these programs include personal nurse, chronic condition management, and case management as well as programs supporting maternity, cancer, neonatal intensive care unit, and transplant services. 10 wellness we offer wellness solutions including our go365 wellness and loyalty rewards program, employee assistance program, and clinical programs. these programs, when offered collectively to employer customers as our total health product, turn any standard plan of the employer's choosing into an integrated health and well-being solution that encourages participation in these programs. our go365 program provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual's needs and wants. a key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an incentive program. our individual commercial segment products our individual health plans were marketed under the humanaone brand. we offered products both on and off of the public exchange. we discontinued substantially all off-exchange individual commercial medical plans effective january 1, 2017, and we exited our remaining individual commercial medical business effective january 1, 2018. other businesses other businesses includes those businesses that do not align with the reportable segments previously described, primarily our closed-block long-term care insurance policies, which was sold in 2018. for a detailed discussion of the sale refer to note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. 11 membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2018 , by market and product: retail segment group and specialty segment (in thousands) individual medicare advantage group medicare advantage medicare stand- alone pdp medicare supplement state- based contracts fully- insured commercial group aso military services total percent of total florida 636.8 9.9 234.2 11.4 333.4 125.7 36.2 1,387.6 8.4 % texas 246.9 241.9 305.1 10.6 171.6 30.4 1,006.5 6.1 % kentucky 89.0 63.7 215.6 5.8 112.6 138.5 625.2 3.8 % california 70.9 0.2 484.4 20.3 575.8 3.5 % georgia 114.2 2.2 124.5 11.1 158.5 45.2 455.7 2.7 % illinois 108.7 23.3 185.2 5.7 7.7 46.0 76.8 453.4 2.7 % ohio 128.6 22.1 184.3 45.8 44.6 27.5 452.9 2.7 % missouri/kansas 82.5 4.9 227.2 9.1 45.0 17.4 386.1 2.3 % north carolina 149.5 0.5 172.6 6.0 328.6 2.0 % tennessee 144.3 4.3 117.2 4.9 41.4 12.9 325.0 2.0 % louisiana 161.1 12.1 61.3 2.2 59.6 13.5 309.8 1.9 % wisconsin 58.7 10.0 121.6 6.3 68.7 36.8 302.1 1.8 % indiana 103.5 6.8 145.8 9.0 21.2 12.6 298.9 1.8 % virginia 121.6 3.1 159.1 8.6 292.4 1.8 % michigan 52.9 12.9 140.2 3.4 2.8 0.4 212.6 1.3 % arizona 76.0 0.4 97.6 4.8 25.0 5.5 209.3 1.3 % pennsylvania 46.6 0.4 156.2 4.7 207.9 1.2 % south carolina 87.0 0.5 71.3 5.2 164.0 1.0 % military services 5,928.6 5,928.6 35.8 % others 585.2 78.6 1,800.9 79.4 82.0 28.2 2,654.3 15.9 % totals 3,064.0 497.8 5,004.3 254.3 341.1 1,004.7 481.9 5,928.6 16,576.7 100.0 % provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we employ or with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into various care management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. we have available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. we also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. 12 we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate for diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. the terms of our contracts with hospitals and physicians may also vary between medicare and commercial business. a significant portion of our medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to medicare reimbursement levels and methodologies. capitation we offer providers a continuum of opportunities to increase the integration of care and offer assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. these include performance bonuses, shared savings and shared risk relationships. for some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership, primarily hmo membership. under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated member. we believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery model at the core of our strategy. our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries. at december 31, 2018 , approximately 1,128,500 members, or 6.8% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts, which provide all member benefits, including 942,000 individual medicare advantage members, or 30.7% of our total individual medicare advantage membership. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician's financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we typically process all claims and monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we delegated claim processing functions under capitation arrangements covering approximately 181,200 hmo members, including 168,900 individual medicare advantage members, or 17.9% of the 942,000 individual medicare advantage members covered under risk-based contracts at december 31, 2018 , with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating the members' health care benefits. capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the underlying claims experience was approximately $1.5 billion , or 3.3% of total benefits expense, for the year ended december 31, 2018 . we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information set, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national 13 committee for quality assurance (ncqa) to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. providers participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every three years, unless otherwise required by state or federal regulations. recredentialing of participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses, review of their malpractice liability claims histories, review of their board certifications, if applicable, and review of applicable quality information. a committee composed of a peer group of providers reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we maintain accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care (aaahc), and/or urac. all federal employee health benefit plans are required to be accredited. certain commercial businesses, such as those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa reviews our compliance based on standards for quality improvement, population health management, credentialing, utilization management, network management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in many of our commercial, medicare and medicaid hmo/pos and ppo markets and our wellness program, go365. humana's pharmacy organization is accredited by urac. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2018 , we employed approximately 1,500 sales representatives, as well as approximately 1,400 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare, including medicare advantage and pdp, in our retail segment and specialty products in our group and specialty segment, including making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we have a marketing arrangement with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart, for our individual medicare stand-alone pdp offering. we also sell group medicare advantage products through large employers. in addition, we market our medicare and individual specialty products through licensed independent brokers and agents. for our medicare products, commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure, regulated in structure and amount by cms. for our individual specialty products, we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. in our group and specialty segment, individuals may become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer's or group's exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. we use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, digital insurance agencies, and employees to sell our group products. many of our larger employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for our specialty products. 14 underwriting since 2014, the patient protection and affordability care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law, requires certain group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments. accordingly, certain group health plans are not subject to underwriting. further, underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos. many of our competitors have a larger membership base and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in item 1a. risk factors in this 2018 form 10-k. government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation's health care system, including the health care reform law. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see item 1a. risk factors in this 2018 form 10-k. certain other services captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers' compensation, cybersecurity, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service. through intercompany service agreements approved, if required, by state regulatory authorities, humana inc., our parent company, charges a management fee for reimbursement of certain centralized services provided to its subsidiaries. 15 employees as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately 41,600 employees and approximately 2,000 additional medical professionals working under management agreements primarily between us and affiliated physician-owned associations. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 16 item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, if we are unable to implement clinical initiatives to provide a better health care experience for our members, lower costs and appropriately document the risk profile of our members, or if our estimates of benefits expense are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefits expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. we continually review these estimates, however these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. any reserve, including a premium deficiency reserve, may be insufficient. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves, including premium deficiency reserves where appropriate. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services; increased cost of such services; increased use or cost of prescription drugs, including specialty prescription drugs; the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including any that result from the health care reform law. key to our operational strategy is the implementation of clinical initiatives that we believe provide a better health care experience for our members, lower the cost of healthcare services delivered to our members, and appropriately document the risk profile of our members. our profitability and competitiveness depend in large part on our ability to 17 appropriately manage health care costs through, among other things, the application of medical management programs such as our chronic care management program. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage our operating expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, any costs associated with exiting products, additional investment in new products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs, state-based contracts, and expansion of clinical capabilities as part of our integrated care delivery model), investments in health and well-being product offerings, acquisitions, new taxes and assessments (including the non-deductible health insurance industry fee), and implementation of regulatory requirements may increase our operating expenses. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or effectively manage our operating expenses, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program or competitors in the delivery of health care services. we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform, and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. the policies and decisions of the federal and state governments regarding the medicare, military and medicaid programs in which we participate have a substantial impact on our profitability. these governmental policies and decisions, which we cannot predict with certainty, directly shape the premiums or other revenues to us under the programs, the eligibility and enrollment of our members, the services we provide to our members, and our administrative, health care services, and other costs associated with these programs. legislative or regulatory actions, such as those resulting in a reduction in premium payments to us, an increase in our cost of administrative and health care services, or additional fees, taxes or assessments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose membership with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives and our state-based contracts strategy, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in these products. in addition, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our star ratings in future years. our future performance depends in large part upon our ability to execute our strategy, including opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare programs, the successful implementation of our integrated care delivery model and our strategy with respect to state-based contracts, including those covering members dually eligible for the medicare and medicaid programs. 18 we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we offer both stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plans with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer a medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare products is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare products in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in medicare products. there is significant concentration of our revenues in medicare products, with approximately 80% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2018 generated from our medicare products, including 15% derived from our individual medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. the health care reform law created a federal medicare-medicaid coordination office to serve dual eligibles. this medicare-medicaid coordination office has initiated a series of state demonstration projects to experiment with better coordination of care between medicare and medicaid. depending upon the results of those demonstration projects, cms may change the way in which dual eligibles are serviced. if we are unable to implement our strategic initiatives to address the dual eligibles opportunity, including our participation in state-based contracts, or if our initiatives are not successful at attracting or retaining dual eligible members, our business may be materially adversely affected. the achievement of star ratings of 4-star or higher qualifies medicare advantage plans for premium bonuses. our medicare advantage plans' operating results may be significantly affected by their star ratings. despite our operational efforts to improve our star ratings, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our star ratings in future years. in addition, audits of our performance for past or future periods may result in downgrades to our star ratings. accordingly, our plans may not be eligible for full level quality bonuses, which could adversely affect the benefits such plans can offer, reduce membership and/or reduce profit margins. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have reduced the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the 19 software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. there can be no assurance that our information technology, or it, process will successfully improve existing systems, develop new systems to support our expanding operations, integrate new systems, protect our proprietary information, defend against cybersecurity attacks, or improve service levels. in addition, there can be no assurance that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we are unable to defend our information technology security systems against cybersecurity attacks or prevent other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or in the unintended dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could be exposed to significant regulatory fines or penalties, liability or reputational damage, or experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or a third-party. we have been, and will likely continue to be, regular targets of attempted cybersecurity attacks and other security threats and may be subject to breaches of our information technology security systems. although the impact of such attacks has not been material to our operations or results of operations, financial position, or cash flow through december 31, 2018, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, or contain the effects of such cybersecurity attacks or other information security risks or threats in the future. a cybersecurity attack may penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, cause shutdowns, or deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our systems. a cybersecurity attack that bypasses our it security systems successfully could materially affect us due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property, operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our it systems, or negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our members, customers, providers, and other stakeholders. in certain circumstances we may rely on third party vendors to process, store and transmit large amounts of data for our businesses whose operations are subject to similar risks. the costs to eliminate or address cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities before or after an incident could be substantial. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential members. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information about us or our members or other third-parties, could expose our associates' or members' private information and result in the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in significant regulatory fines or penalties, litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. we are involved in various legal actions and governmental and internal investigations, any of which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages or changes in our business practices. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are or may become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including breach of contract actions, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, stockholder suits and other securities laws claims, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management, and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; 20 claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers' alleged malpractice; claims arising from any adverse medical consequences resulting from our recommendations about the appropriateness of providers' proposed medical treatment plans for patients; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation or non-acceptance or termination of provider contracts; disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that we, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government including, among other allegations, resulting from coding and review practices under the medicare risk-adjustment model; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy; and professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may materially adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services or otherwise change our business practices, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see "legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters" in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these matters with certainty. as a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. these programs accounted for approximately 85% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2018 . these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2018 , under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 636,800 individual medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for 21 approximately 15% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2018 . the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2018, our military services business, which accounted for approximately 1% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2018 , primarily consisted of the tricare t2017 east region contract replacing the 5-year t3 south region contract that expired on december 31, 2017. the t2017 east region contract is a consolidation of the former t3 north and south regions, comprising thirty-two states and approximately 6 million tricare beneficiaries, under which delivery of health care services commenced on january 1, 2018. the t2017 east region contract is a 5 -year contract set to expire on december 31, 2022 and is subject to renewals on january 1 of each year during its term at the government's option. the loss of the tricare t2017 east region contract may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. as a government contractor, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that the government contractor submitted false claims to the government. litigation of this nature is filed under seal to allow the government an opportunity to investigate and to decide if it wishes to intervene and assume control of the litigation. if the government does not intervene, the lawsuit is unsealed, and the individual may continue to prosecute the action on his or her own. cms uses a risk-adjustment model which adjusts premiums paid to medicare advantage, or ma, plans according to health status of covered members. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits improvement and protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more where a plan's membership has higher expected costs. under this model, rates paid to ma plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on our estimated cost of providing standard medicare-covered benefits to an enrollee with a "national average risk profile." that baseline payment amount is adjusted to reflect the health status of our enrolled membership. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all ma plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses the diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to ma plans, which cms adjusts for coding pattern differences between the health plans and the government fee-for-service program. we generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to cms as the basis for our payment received from cms under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. we also rely on these providers to document appropriately all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. in addition, we conduct medical record reviews as part of our data and payment accuracy compliance efforts, to more accurately reflect diagnosis conditions under the risk adjustment model. these compliance efforts include the internal contract level audits described in more detail below, as well as ordinary course reviews of our internal business processes. cms is phasing-in the process of calculating risk scores using diagnoses data from the risk adjustment processing system, or raps, to diagnoses data from the encounter data system, or eds. the raps process requires ma plans to apply a filter logic based on cms guidelines and only submit diagnoses that satisfy those guidelines. for submissions through eds, cms requires ma plans to submit all the encounter data and cms will apply the risk adjustment filtering logic to determine the risk scores. for 2018, 15% of the risk score was calculated from claims data submitted through eds. in 2019 and 2020 cms will increase that percentage to 25% and 50%, respectively. the phase-in from raps to eds could result in different risk scores from each dataset as a result of plan processing issues, cms processing issues, or filtering logic 22 differences between raps and eds, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. cms and the office of the inspector general of health and human services, or hhs-oig, are continuing to perform audits of various companies' selected ma contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. we refer to these audits as risk-adjustment data validation audits, or radv audits. radv audits review medical records in an attempt to validate provider medical record documentation and coding practices which influence the calculation of premium payments to ma plans. in 2012, cms released a notice of final payment error calculation methodology for part c medicare advantage risk adjustment data validation (radv) contract-level audits. the payment error calculation methodology provided that, in calculating the economic impact of audit results for an ma contract, if any, the results of the radv audit sample would be extrapolated to the entire ma contract after a comparison of the audit results to a similar audit of medicare ffs (we refer to the process of accounting for errors in ffs claims as the "ffs adjuster"). this comparison of radv audit results to the ffs error rate is necessary to determine the economic impact, if any, of radv audit results because the government used the medicare ffs program data set, including any attendant errors that are present in that data set, to estimate the costs of various health status conditions and to set the resulting adjustments to ma plans' payment rates in order to establish actuarial equivalence in payment rates as required under the medicare statute. cms already makes other adjustments to payment rates based on a comparison of coding pattern differences between ma plans and medicare ffs data (such as for frequency of coding for certain diagnoses in ma plan data versus the medicare ffs program dataset). the final radv extrapolation methodology, including the first application of extrapolated audit results to determine audit settlements, is expected to be applied to cms radv contract level audits conducted for contract year 2011 and subsequent years. cms is currently conducting radv contract level audits for certain of our medicare advantage plans. estimated audit settlements are recorded as a reduction of premiums revenue in our consolidated statements of income, based upon available information. we perform internal contract level audits based on the radv audit methodology prescribed by cms. included in these internal contract level audits is an audit of our private fee-for service business which we used to represent a proxy of the ffs adjuster which has not yet been finalized. we based our accrual of estimated audit settlements for each contract year on the results of these internal contract level audits and update our estimates as each audit is completed. estimates derived from these results were not material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. we report the results of these internal contract level audits to cms, including identified overpayments, if any. on october 26, 2018, cms issued a proposed rule and accompanying materials (which we refer to as the proposed rule ) related to, among other things, the radv audit methodology described above. if implemented, the proposed rule would use extrapolation in radv audits applicable to payment year 2011 contract-level audits and all subsequent audits, without the application of a ffs adjuster to audit findings. we are studying the proposed rule and cms' underlying analysis contained therein. we believe, however, that the proposed rule fails to address adequately the statutory requirement of actuarial equivalence, and we expect to provide substantive comments to cms on the proposed rule as part of the notice-and-comment rulemaking process. we are also evaluating the potential impact of the proposed rule, and any related regulatory, industry or company reactions, all or any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, as part of our internal compliance efforts, we routinely perform ordinary course reviews of our internal business processes related to, among other things, our risk coding and data submissions in connection with the risk- adjustment model. these reviews may also result in the identification of errors and the submission of corrections to cms, that may, either individually or in the aggregate, be material. as such, the result of these reviews may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. 23 we believe that cms' statements and policies regarding the requirement to report and return identified overpayments received by ma plans are inconsistent with cms' 2012 radv audit methodology, and the medicare statute's requirements. these statements and policies, such as certain statements contained in the preamble to cms' final rule release regarding medicare advantage and part d prescription drug benefit program regulations for contract year 2015 (which we refer to as the "overpayment rule"), and the proposed rule, appear to equate each medicare advantage risk adjustment data error with an overpayment without addressing the principles underlying the ffs adjuster referenced above. on september 7, 2018, the federal district court for the district of columbia vacated cms's overpayment rule, concluding that it violated the medicare statute, including the requirement for actuarial equivalence, and that the overpayment rule was also arbitrary and capricious in departing from cms's radv methodology without adequate explanation (among other reasons). cms has filed a motion for reconsideration related to certain aspects of the federal district court's opinion and has simultaneously filed a notice to appeal the decision to the circuit court of appeals. we will continue to work with cms to ensure that ma plans are paid accurately and that payment model principles are in accordance with the requirements of the social security act, which, if not implemented correctly could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members' prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premiums revenue related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net payable of $170 million and $279 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms's portion of claims costs which exceed the member's out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms's prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the applicable year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms's claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms's claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment which we would have otherwise received as a low-income subsidy or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms's share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. we are also subject to various other governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations, including audits of risk adjustment data, are also conducted by state attorneys 24 general, cms, hhs-oig, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. the outcome of any current or future governmental or internal investigations cannot be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. nevertheless, it is reasonably possible that any such outcome of litigation, penalties, fines or other sanctions could be substantial, and the outcome of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. certain of these matters could also affect our reputation. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. the health care reform law could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs by, among other things, requiring a minimum benefit ratio on insured products, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with a non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. the provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, imposing a significant new non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments on health insurers, limiting medicare advantage payment rates, stipulating a prescribed minimum ratio for the amount of premiums revenue to be expended on medical costs for insured products, additional mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, requirements that limit the ability of health plans to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, and heightened scrutiny by state and federal regulators of our business practices, including our medicare bid and pricing practices. the health care reform law also specifies benefit design guidelines, limits rating and pricing practices, encourages additional competition (including potential incentives for new market entrants), establishes federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges for individuals and small employers (with up to 100 employees) coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers (subject to federal administrative action), and expands eligibility for medicaid programs (subject to state-by-state implementation of this expansion). financing for these reforms come, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us and other health plans and individuals which began in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health care reform law, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, potential legislative changes or judicial determinations, including activities to repeal or replace the health care reform law or declare all or certain portions of the health care reform law unconstitutional, creates uncertainty for our business, and we cannot predict when, or in what form, such legislative changes or judicial determinations may occur. for additional information, please refer to the section entitled, health care reform in item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in this annual report. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application, including reductions in medicare advantage payment rates, could increase our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition to the health care reform law, the health care industry in general and health insurance are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation: health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (hitech act) 25 the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers, and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information, including requirements that insurers provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal information is used, including an opportunity to "opt out" of certain disclosures. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans and providers). the hitech act, one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, significantly broadened the scope of the privacy and security regulations of hipaa. among other requirements, the hitech act and hipaa mandate individual notification in the event of a breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information, provides enhanced penalties for hipaa violations, requires business associates to comply with certain provisions of the hipaa privacy and security rule, and grants enforcement authority to state attorneys general in addition to the hhs office of civil rights. in addition, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. state statutes and regulations vary from state to state and could impose additional penalties. violations of hipaa or applicable federal or state laws or regulations could subject us to significant criminal or civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa and other privacy regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to hhs in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business associates to comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa's provisions and requires hhs to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. corporate practice of medicine and other laws as a corporate entity, humana inc. is not licensed to practice medicine. many states in which we operate through our subsidiaries limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. under management agreements between certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed healthcare providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. we believe that our health services operations comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee- 26 splitting, and similar issues. however, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these statutes, which could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. anti-kickback, physician self-referral, and other fraud and abuse laws a federal law commonly referred to as the anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of medicare or other governmental health program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease, or order of items or services that are covered by medicare or other federal governmental health programs. because the prohibitions contained in the anti-kickback statute apply to the furnishing of items or services for which payment is made in whole or in part, the anti-kickback statute could be implicated if any portion of an item or service we provide is covered by any of the state or federal health benefit programs described above. violation of these provisions constitutes a felony criminal offense and applicable sanctions could include exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. section 1877 of the social security act, commonly known as the stark law, prohibits physicians, subject to certain exceptions described below, from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity providing designated health services in which the physician, or an immediate family member, has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has entered into a compensation arrangement. these prohibitions, contained in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1993, commonly known as stark ii, amended prior federal physician self-referral legislation known as stark i by expanding the list of designated health services to a total of 11 categories of health services. the professional groups with which we are affiliated provide one or more of these designated health services. persons or entities found to be in violation of the stark law are subject to denial of payment for services furnished pursuant to an improper referral, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. many states also have enacted laws similar in scope and purpose to the anti-kickback statute and, in more limited instances, the stark law, that are not limited to services for which medicare or medicaid payment is made. in addition, most states have statutes, regulations, or professional codes that restrict a physician from accepting various kinds of remuneration in exchange for making referrals. these laws vary from state to state and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. in states that have enacted these statutes, we believe that regulatory authorities and state courts interpreting these statutes may regard federal law under the anti-kickback statute and the stark law as persuasive. we believe that our operations comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, and similar federal or state laws addressing fraud and abuse. these laws are subject to modification and changes in interpretation, and are enforced by authorities vested with broad discretion. we continually monitor developments in this area. if these laws are interpreted in a manner contrary to our interpretation or are reinterpreted or amended, or if new legislation is enacted with respect to healthcare fraud and abuse, illegal remuneration, or similar issues, we may be required to restructure our affected operations to maintain compliance with applicable law. there can be no assurances that any such restructuring will be possible or, if possible, would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. environmental we are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment. if an environmental regulatory agency finds any of our facilities to be in violation of environmental laws, penalties and fines may be imposed for each day of violation and the affected facility could be forced to cease operations. we could also incur other significant costs, such as cleanup costs or claims by third parties, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. although we believe that our environmental practices, including waste handling and disposal practices, are in material compliance with applicable laws, future claims or violations, or changes in environmental laws, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 27 state regulation of insurance-related products laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: capital adequacy and other licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate increases, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed insurance subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue our acquisition strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, transactions outside of our core business space, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. the failure to successfully integrate acquired entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of our acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic alliances may cause asset write-offs, restructuring costs or other expenses and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. in addition, from time to time, we evaluate alternatives for our businesses that do not meet our strategic, growth or profitability objectives, and we may divest or wind down such businesses. there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such divestiture on terms favorable to us. the divestiture of certain businesses could result, individually or in the aggregate, in the recognition of material losses and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, divestitures may result in continued financial exposure to the divested businesses following the completion of the transaction. for example, in connection with a disposition, we may enter into transition or administrative service agreements, coinsurance arrangements, vendor relationships or other strategic relationships with the divested business, or we may agree to provide certain indemnities to the purchaser in any such transaction, each of which may result in additional expense and could have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we employ or contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. a key component of our integrated care delivery strategy is to increase the number of providers who share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations, or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate unfavorable contracts with us or place us at a competitive 28 disadvantage, or do not enter into contracts with us that encourage the delivery of quality medical services in a cost-effective manner, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care providers for an actuarially determined, fixed fee per month to provide a basket of required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our pharmacy mail order business competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, internet companies and other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state's board of pharmacy. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations, requiring registration with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the u.s. department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-order pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose us to civil and criminal penalties. changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. it is uncertain whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. regulators have conducted investigations into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our mail-order pharmacy 29 business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our mail-order and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from certain of our licensed subsidiaries is restricted by state insurance regulations. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. certain of our insurance subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, administrative expense reimbursements or other cash transfers to humana inc., and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these insurance subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, or ordinary dividends, is limited based on the entity's level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. dividends from our non-insurance companies such as in our healthcare services segment are generally not restricted by departments of insurance. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. in addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would 30 increase, our sales and earnings could decrease, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, acquisitions, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months, as well as to refinance or repay debt, and repurchase shares. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. in the past we have, and in the future we may enter into interest rate swap agreements depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either libor plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2018 or december 31, 2017 . interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with a weighted average s&amp;p credit rating of aa at december 31, 2018 . our net unrealized position decreased $402 million from a net unrealized gain position of $198 million at december 31, 2017 to a net unrealized loss position of $204 million at december 31, 2018 . at december 31, 2018 , we had gross unrealized losses of $213 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates since the time the securities were purchased. there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2018 . while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio's cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 2.9 years as of december 31, 2018 and 4.1 years as of december 31, 2017 . based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $365 million . we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200, and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may affect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have not exceeded 300 basis points, have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points twice , and have changed by less than 100 basis points eight times. 76 increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in millions) as of december 31, 2018 investment income (a) $ (154 ) $ (114 ) $ (57 ) $ 58 $ 116 $ 175 interest expense (b) 31 20 10 (10 ) (20 ) (31 ) pretax $ (123 ) $ (94 ) $ (47 ) $ 48 $ 96 $ 144 as of december 31, 2017 investment income (a) $ (87 ) $ (83 ) $ (67 ) $ 67 $ 134 $ 202 interest expense (b) 2 2 2 (2 ) (3 ) (5 ) pretax $ (85 ) $ (81 ) $ (65 ) $ 65 $ 131 $ 197 (a) as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , some of our investments had interest rates below 3% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 3% point reduction. (b) the interest rate under our senior notes is fixed. there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2018 or december 31, 2017 . there was $645 million and $150 million outstanding under our commercial paper program at december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. as of december 31, 2017 , our interest rate under our commercial paper program was less than 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 2% point reduction. 77risk factors 19 risk factors in this 2019 form 10-k for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. business segments we manage our business with three reportable segments: retail, group and specialty, and healthcare services. beginning january 1, 2018, we exited the individual commercial fully-insured medical health insurance business, as 3 well as certain other business in 2018, and therefore no longer report separately the individual commercial segment and the other businesses category in the current year. previously, the other businesses category included businesses that were not individually reportable because they did not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles, primarily our closed-block of commercial long-term care insurance policies which were sold in 2018. the reportable segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer, the chief operating decision maker, to assess performance and allocate resources. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data for segment financial information. our products our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. these products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. health maintenance organizations, or hmos, include comprehensive managed care benefits generally through a participating network of physicians, hospitals, and other providers. preferred provider organizations, or ppos, provide members the freedom to choose any health care provider. however ppos generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider's fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the ppo's network. point of service, or pos, plans combine the advantages of hmo plans with the flexibility of ppo plans. in general, pos plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan's network or outside the network. in addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy solutions, provider, and clinical programs, as well as services and capabilities to advance population health. at the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. three core elements of the model are to improve the consumer experience by simplifying the interaction with us, engaging members in clinical programs, and offering assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused. the model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. the discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. our retail segment products this segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the retail segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2019 : retail segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: individual medicare advantage $ 43,128 67.0 % group medicare advantage 6,475 10.1 % medicare stand-alone pdp 3,165 4.9 % total retail medicare 52,768 82.0 % state-based medicaid 2,898 4.5 % medicare supplement 588 0.9 % total premiums 56,254 87.4 % services 17 % total premiums and services revenue $ 56,271 87.4 % 4 medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 30 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. we have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. we believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional fee-for-service medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as medicare ffs. as an alternative to medicare ffs, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under medicare ffs. our medicare advantage, or ma, plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. individual medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, chronic care management, and care coordination, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of medicare ffs, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. most of our medicare pffs plans are network-based products with in and out of network benefits due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. in these areas, we offer medicare pffs plans that have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to medicare ffs payment rates. 5 cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms's risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits improvement and protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. cms is phasing-in the process of calculating risk scores using diagnoses data from the risk adjustment processing system, or raps, to diagnoses data from the encounter data system, or eds. the raps process requires ma plans to apply a filter logic based on cms guidelines and only submit diagnoses that satisfy those guidelines. for submissions through eds, cms requires ma plans to submit all the encounter data and cms will apply the risk adjustment filtering logic to determine the risk scores. for 2019 , 25% of the risk score was calculated from claims data submitted through eds. cms will increase that percentage to 50% in 2020 and has proposed to increase that percentage to 75% in 2021 . for more information refer to note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data and item 1a. - risk factors. at december 31, 2019 , we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 3,587,200 individual medicare advantage members, including approximately 701,400 members in florida. these florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $9.5 billion , which represented approximately 22.0% of our individual medicare advantage premiums revenue, or 15.0% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2019 . our hmo, ppo, and pffs products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage products have been renewed for 2020 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2020 have been approved. individual medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d, including a pdp offering co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., or the humana-walmart plan. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our pdp bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, titled medicare part d. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp products have been renewed for 2020 , and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2020 have been approved. we have administered cms's limited income newly eligible transition, or li-net, prescription drug plan program since 2010. this program allows individuals who receive medicare's low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a medicare part d plan. cms temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both medicare and medicaid into the li-net prescription drug plan program, and subsequently transitions each member into a medicare part d plan that may or may not be a humana medicare plan. 6 group medicare advantage and medicare stand-alone pdp we offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace medicare wrap or medicare supplement products with medicare advantage or stand-alone pdps from humana. these products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an employer's post-retirement benefit structure. state-based medicaid contracts our state-based contracts allow us to serve members enrolled in state-based medicaid programs including temporary assistance to needy families, or tanf, aged, blind, and disabled, or abd, long-term support services, or ltss, and the cms financial alignment dual eligible demonstration programs. tanf and abd programs are traditional medicaid programs that are state and federally funded and provide cash assistance and supportive services to assist qualifying aged, blind, or disabled individuals, as well as families with children under age 18, helping them achieve economic self-sufficiency. ltss is a state and federally funded program that offers states a broad and flexible set of program design options and refers to the delivery of long-term support services for our members who receive home and community or institution-based services for long-term care. our contracts are generally for three to five year terms. we have contracts to serve medicaid eligible members in florida and kentucky under traditional programs, as well as contracts in florida under the ltss program. prior to january 1, 2020, our kentucky medicaid contract was subject to a 100% coinsurance contract with caresource management group company, ceding all the risk to caresource. effective january 1, 2020, we terminated the reinsurance agreement with caresource and assumed full administration of our kentucky medicaid contract. medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. the dual eligible population represents a disproportionate share of medicaid and medicare costs. states require special coordinating contracts for plans to offer medicare advantage dual eligible special needs plans, or d-snps. these largely operate separate from traditional medicaid and ltss programs. some states are moving to support the dual eligible population by linking d-snp participation to enrollment in a plan that also participates in a state-based medicaid program to coordinate and integrate both medicare and medicaid benefits. beginning in 2021, based on new federal requirements, states are expected to strengthen medicaid-medicare integration requirements for d-snps. we currently serve dual eligible members under the cms stand-alone dual eligible demonstration program in illinois, and continue to serve other dual eligible members enrolled in our medicare advantage and stand-alone prescription drug plans. 7 our group and specialty segment products the group and specialty segment consists of employer group commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits marketed to individuals and employer groups, including dental, vision and life insurance benefits, as well as administrative services only, or aso products as described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the group and specialty segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2019 : group and specialty segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) external revenue: premiums: fully-insured commercial group $ 5,123 8.0 % specialty 1,571 2.4 % total premiums 6,694 10.4 % services 790 1.2 % total premiums and services revenue $ 7,484 11.6 % intersegment services revenue $ 18 n/a n/a not applicable group commercial coverage our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through hmo, ppo, or pos plans, or self-funded basis. our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. our administrative services only, or aso, products are offered to small group and large group employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured hmo, ppo, or pos products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing the costs of health benefits, with large group customers retaining a greater share and small group customers a smaller share of the cost of health benefits. all small group aso customers and many large group aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, and life products. we also offer optional benefits such as dental and vision to individuals. military services under our tricare contracts with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the dod. under our contracts, we provide administrative services while the federal government retains all of the risk of the cost of health benefits. accordingly, we account for revenues under the current contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. on january 1, 2018, we began to deliver services under the t2017 east region contract. the t2017 east region contract is a consolidation of the former t3 north and south regions, comprising thirty-two states and approximately 6 million tricare beneficiaries. the t2017 east region 8 contract is a 5 -year contract set to expire on december 31, 2022 and is subject to renewals on january 1 of each year during its term at the government's option. our healthcare services segment products the products offered by our healthcare services segment are key to our integrated care delivery model. this segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that offer services including pharmacy solutions, provider services, clinical care services, and predictive modeling and informatics services to other humana businesses, as well as external health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. our intersegment revenue is described in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. the following table presents our services revenue for the healthcare services segment by line of business for the year ended december 31, 2019 : healthcare services segment services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) intersegment revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 22,189 n/a provider services 2,344 n/a clinical care services 616 n/a total intersegment revenue $ 25,149 external services revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 186 0.3 % provider services 306 0.5 % clinical care services 140 0.2 % total external services revenue $ 632 1.0 % n/a not applicable pharmacy solutions humana pharmacy solutions , or hps, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. hps also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through humana pharmacy, inc. provider services we operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers in a number of states, including florida, kansas, missouri, north carolina, south carolina, and texas, staffed by primary care providers and medical specialists with a primary focus on the senior population. we operate these clinics primarily under the conviva, partners in primary care or family physicians group brands. our care delivery subsidiaries operate our medical center business through both employed physicians and care providers, and through third party management service organizations with whom we contract to arrange for and manage certain clinical services. we also operate a medical services organization, or mso, through conviva that coordinates medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries in florida and texas. this mso provides resources in care coordination, financial risk management, clinical integration and patient engagement that help physicians improve the patient experience as well as care outcomes. conviva's mso collaborates with physicians, medical groups and integrated delivery systems to successfully transition to value-based care by engaging, partnering and offering practical services and solutions. in february 2020, partners in primary care entered into a strategic partnership with welsh, carson, anderson &amp; stowe to open a minimum of 50 additional payor-agnostic, senior-focused primary care centers over the next three 9 years and in 2018 we acquired family physicians group, or fpg, serving medicare advantage and managed medicaid hmo patients through its senior focused clinics in greater orlando, florida. also, during 2018, we acquired the remaining equity interest in miami, florida based mcci holdings, llc, or mcci, a privately held management service organization and healthcare that primarily coordinates medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries in florida and texas. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. clinical care services via in-home care, telephonic health counseling/coaching, and remote monitoring, we are actively involved in the care management of our customers with the greatest needs. clinical care services include the operations of humana at home, inc., or humana at home . as a chronic-care provider of in-home care for seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. we focus our deployment of these services in geographies with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions. the clinical support and care provided by humana at home is designed to improve health outcomes and result in a higher number of days members can spend at their homes instead of in an acute care facility. at december 31, 2019 , we have enrolled approximately 868,800 members, with complex chronic conditions participating in a humana chronic care program, reflecting enhanced predictive modeling capabilities and focus on proactive clinical outreach and member engagement, particularly for our medicare advantage membership. these members may not be unique to each program since members have the ability to enroll in multiple programs. we believe these initiatives lead to better health outcomes for our members and lower health care costs. we have committed additional investments in our home care capabilities with our acquisition of a 40% minority interest in kindred at home, inc., or kindred at home, and curo health services, or curo, which combined creates the nation's largest home health and hospice provider with 65% overlap with our individual medicare advantage business. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. we are committed to the integrated physical and mental health of our members. accordingly, we take a holistic approach to healthcare, offering care management and wellness programs. these programs use our capabilities that enable us to create a more complete view of an individual's health, designed to connect, coordinate and simplify health care while reducing costs. these capabilities include our health care analytics engine, which reviews billions of clinical data points on millions of patients each day to provide members, providers, and payers real-time clinical insights to identify evidence-based gaps-in-care, drug safety alerts and other critical health concerns to improve outcomes. additionally, our technology connects humana and disparate electronic health record systems to enable the exchange of essential health information in real-time to provide physicians and care teams with a single, comprehensive patient view. our care management programs take full advantage of the population health, wellness and clinical applications offered by carehub, our clinical management tool used by providers and care managers across the company to help our members achieve their best health, to offer various levels of support, matching the intensity of the support to the needs of members with ongoing health challenges through telephonic and onsite programs. these programs include personal nurse, chronic condition management, and case management as well as programs supporting maternity, cancer, neonatal intensive care unit, and transplant services. wellness we offer wellness solutions including our go365 wellness and loyalty rewards program, employee assistance program, and clinical programs. these programs, when offered collectively to employer customers as our total health product, turn any standard plan of the employer's choosing into an integrated health and well-being solution that encourages participation in these programs. our go365 program provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual's needs and 10 wants. a key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an incentive program. our individual commercial segment products our individual health plans were marketed under the humanaone brand. we offered products both on and off of the public exchange. we discontinued substantially all off-exchange individual commercial medical plans effective january 1, 2017, and we exited our remaining individual commercial medical business effective january 1, 2018. other businesses other businesses includes those businesses that do not align with the reportable segments previously described, primarily our closed-block long-term care insurance policies, which were sold in 2018. for a detailed discussion of the sale refer to note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2019 , by market and product: retail segment group and specialty segment (in thousands) individual medicare advantage group medicare advantage medicare stand- alone pdp medicare supplement state- based contracts fully- insured commercial group aso military services total percent of total florida 701.4 10.2 188.6 16.5 460.9 145.4 36.9 1,559.9 9.4 % texas 285.9 244.5 292.3 19.5 140.8 31.0 1,014.0 6.1 % kentucky 98.0 65.6 201.4 6.1 106.6 135.3 613.0 3.7 % california 83.9 0.7 436.7 20.7 542.0 3.3 % georgia 144.4 2.0 113.3 11.4 135.6 71.3 478.0 2.9 % illinois 126.2 25.0 172.0 7.7 8.1 36.8 76.7 452.5 2.7 % ohio 150.3 23.3 153.2 42.8 33.0 31.4 434.0 2.6 % missouri/kansas 98.1 4.8 189.0 12.1 38.9 26.0 368.9 2.2 % north carolina 179.2 0.4 148.6 6.5 334.7 2.0 % tennessee 153.9 4.9 104.8 7.0 38.3 14.0 322.9 1.9 % louisiana 167.3 13.8 55.5 3.1 52.7 19.4 311.8 1.9 % wisconsin 63.5 5.7 104.6 7.0 65.9 32.9 279.6 1.7 % indiana 113.9 7.1 121.9 10.2 19.3 11.8 284.2 1.7 % virginia 132.2 3.8 139.5 9.2 284.7 1.7 % michigan 70.9 18.9 118.7 4.7 1.8 215.0 1.3 % arizona 92.8 0.4 88.0 7.4 21.5 8.1 218.2 1.3 % pennsylvania 56.6 2.2 139.4 5.6 203.8 1.1 % south carolina 99.4 0.5 59.0 5.9 164.8 1.0 % military services 5,984.3 5,984.3 35.9 % others 769.3 91.5 1,538.7 95.0 72.0 34.4 2,600.9 15.6 % totals 3,587.2 525.3 4,365.2 298.4 469.0 908.6 529.2 5,984.3 16,667.2 100.0 % provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we employ or with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services 11 and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into various care management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. we have available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. we also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate for diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. the terms of our contracts with hospitals and physicians may also vary between medicare and commercial business. a significant portion of our medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to medicare reimbursement levels and methodologies. capitation we offer providers a continuum of opportunities to increase the integration of care and offer assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. these include performance bonuses, shared savings and shared risk relationships. for some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership, primarily hmo membership. under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated member. we believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery model at the core of our strategy. our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries. at december 31, 2019 , approximately 1,289,100 members, or 7.7% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts, which provide all member benefits, including 1,116,000 individual medicare advantage members, or 31.1% of our total individual medicare advantage membership. 12 physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician's financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we typically process all claims and monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we delegated claim processing functions under capitation arrangements covering approximately 203,800 hmo members, including 196,300 individual medicare advantage members, or 17.6% of the 1,116,000 individual medicare advantage members covered under risk-based contracts at december 31, 2019 , with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating the members' health care benefits. capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the underlying claims experience was approximately $1.9 billion , or 3.6% of total benefits expense, for the year ended december 31, 2019 . we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information set, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance (ncqa) to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. providers participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every three years, unless otherwise required by state or federal regulations. recredentialing of participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses, review of their malpractice liability claims histories, review of their board certifications, if applicable, and review of applicable quality information. a committee composed of a peer group of providers reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we maintain accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care (aaahc), and/or urac. certain commercial businesses, such as those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa reviews our compliance based on standards for quality improvement, population health management, credentialing, utilization management, network management, and member experience. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in many of our commercial, medicare and medicaid hmo/pos and ppo markets and our wellness program, go365. humana's pharmacy organization is accredited by urac. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 1,400 sales representatives, as well as approximately 1,400 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare, including medicare advantage and pdp, in our retail segment and specialty products in our group and specialty segment, including making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we have a marketing arrangement with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart, for our individual medicare stand-alone pdp offering. we also sell group medicare advantage products through large employers. in addition, we market our medicare and individual specialty products through licensed independent brokers and agents. for our medicare products, commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure, regulated in structure and amount by cms. for our individual specialty products, we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular 13 customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. in our group and specialty segment, individuals may become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer's or group's exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. we use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, digital insurance agencies, and employees to sell our group products. many of our larger employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for our specialty products. underwriting since 2014, the patient protection and affordability care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law, requires certain group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments. accordingly, certain group health plans are not subject to underwriting. further, underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos. many of our competitors have a larger membership base and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in item 1a. risk factors in this 2019 form 10-k. government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation's health care system, including the health care reform law. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see item 1a. risk factors in this 2019 form 10-k. certain other services captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers' compensation, cybersecurity, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. 14 centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service. through intercompany service agreements approved, if required, by state regulatory authorities, humana inc., our parent company, charges a management fee for reimbursement of certain centralized services provided to its subsidiaries. employees as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately 46,000 employees and approximately 1,200 additional medical professionals working under management agreements primarily between us and affiliated physician-owned associations. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 15 information about our executive officers set forth below are names and ages of all of our current executive officers as of february 1, 2020, their positions, and the date first elected as an officer : name age position first elected officer bruce d. broussard 57 president and chief executive officer, director 12/11 (1) vishal agrawal, m.d. 45 chief strategy and corporate development officer 12/18 (2) heather m. carroll cox 49 chief digital health and analytics officer 08/18 (3) sam m. deshpande 55 chief technology and risk officer 07/17 (4) susan m. diamond 46 segment president, home business 07/19 (5) william k. fleming, pharmd 52 segment president, clinical and pharmacy solutions 03/17 (6) christopher h. hunter 51 segment president, group and military business 01/14 (7) timothy s. huval 53 chief administrative officer 12/12 (8) brian a. kane 47 chief financial officer 06/14 (9) william h. shrank, m.d., mshs 48 chief medical and corporate affairs officer 04/19 (10) joseph c. ventura 43 chief legal officer 02/19 (11) t. alan wheatley 52 segment president, retail 03/17 (12) cynthia h. zipperle 57 senior vice president, chief accounting officer and controller 12/14 (13) (1) mr. broussard currently serves as director, president and chief executive officer (principal executive officer), having held these positions since january 1, 2013. mr. broussard was elected president upon joining the company in december 2011 and served in that capacity through december 2012. prior to joining the company, mr. broussard was chief executive officer of mckesson specialty/us oncology, inc. us oncology was purchased by mckesson in december 2010. at us oncology, mr. broussard served in a number of senior executive roles, including chief financial officer, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. (2) dr. agrawal currently serves as chief strategy and corporate development officer, having joined the company in december 2018. prior to joining the company, dr. agrawal was senior advisor for the carlyle group l.p., having held that position from october 2017 to december 2018. previously, dr. agrawal was president and chief growth officer of ciox health, the largest health information exchange and release of information services organization in the u.s. from december of 2015 to october 2018. prior to joining ciox health, dr. agrawal served as president of harris healthcare solutions from january 2013 to december 2015. (3) ms. cox currently serves as chief digital health and analytics officer, having joined the company in august 2018. prior to joining the company, ms. cox served as chief technology and digital officer at usaa, where she led the teams responsible for designing and building personalized and digitally-enabled end-to-end experiences for usaa members. prior to usaa, heather was the ceo of citi fintech at citigroup, inc., helping the company adapt to a future dominated by mobile technology, and she headed card operations, reshaping customer and digital experience for capital one. 16 (4) mr. deshpande currently serves as chief technology and risk officer, having been elected to this position in august 2019, from his prior role as chief risk officer. before joining humana in july 2017, mr. deshpande spent 17 years at capital one in key leadership positions, most recently as business chief risk officer for the u.s. and international card business. he previously served as the business chief risk officer and head of enterprise services for the financial services division, responsible for business risk, data science, data quality, process excellence and project management. he also led marketing and analysis for the home loans, auto finance, and credit card businesses, with responsibilities for business strategy, credit, product and marketing. (5) susan m. diamond currently serves as segment president, home business, having been elected to this position in july 2019. ms. diamond joined the company in june 2004 and has spent the majority of her humana career in various leadership roles in the medicare business, with a particular passion and emphasis on growth and consumer segmentation strategies for the company's individual medicare advantage and stand alone part d offerings. ms. diamond also served for two and a half years as the enterprise vice president of finance, where she was responsible for enterprise planning and forecasting, trend analytics and had responsibility for each of the company's line of business cfos and controllers. (6) dr. fleming currently serves as segment president, clinical and pharmacy solutions, where he is responsible for humana's clinical solutions (strategy, quality, trend, and operations), pharmacy solutions (pbm, mail, specialty, retail), and enterprise clinical operating model, having held this position since december 2019. prior to that, dr. fleming held positions of segment president, healthcare services as well as president of the company's pharmacy business. dr. fleming joined the company in 1994. (7) mr. hunter currently serves as segment president, group and military business, having been elected to this position in august 2018 after having previously served as the company's chief strategy officer since january 2014. prior to joining the company, mr. hunter served as president of provider markets at the trizetto group, inc. from july 2012 until december 2013, and as senior vice president, emerging markets at bluecross blueshield of tennessee from 2009 through july 2012. while at bluecross blueshield of tennessee, mr. hunter was simultaneously president and chief executive officer of onlife health, a national health and wellness subsidiary of bluecross blueshield of tennessee. (8) mr. huval currently serves as chief administrative officer, having been elected to this position in july 2019, from his previous role as chief human resources officer. prior to joining the company, mr. huval spent 10 years at bank of america in multiple senior-level roles, including human resources executive and chief information officer for global wealth &amp; investment management, as well as human resources executive for both global treasury services and technology &amp; global operations. (9) mr. kane currently serves as chief financial officer, having been elected to this position in june 2014. prior to joining the company, mr. kane spent nearly 17 years at goldman, sachs &amp; co. as a managing director, he was responsible for client relationships as well as for leading strategic and financing transactions for a number of companies in multiple industries. (10) dr. shrank currently serves as chief medical and corporate affairs officer, having been elected to this position in july 2019, from his previous role as chief medical officer. before joining humana in april 2019, dr. shrank served as chief medical officer, insurance services division at the university of pittsburgh medical center, from 2016-2019, where he oversaw approximately $9 billion in annual health care expenditures for approximately 3.5 million members in medicare, medicaid, behavioral health, managed long term social supports and commercial lines of business. he also developed and evaluated population health programs to further advance the medical center's mission as an integrated delivery and financing system. prior to that, dr. shrank served as senior vice president, chief scientific officer, and chief medical officer of provider innovation at cvs health from 2013 to 2016. prior to joining cvs health, dr. shrank served as director, research and rapid-cycle evaluation group, for the center for medicare and medicaid innovation, part of cms from 2011 to 2013, where he led the evaluation of all payment and health system delivery reform programs and developed the rapid-cycle strategy to promote continuous quality improvement. dr. shrank began his career as a practicing physician with brigham and women's hospital in boston and as an assistant professor at harvard 17 medical school. his research at harvard focused on improving the quality of prescribing and the use of chronic medications. he has published more than 200 papers on these topics. (11) mr. ventura currently serves as chief legal officer. he joined the company in january 2009 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility in the company's law department, including most recently, senior vice president, associate general counsel &amp; corporate secretary from july 2017 until february 2019. (12) mr. wheatley currently serves as segment president, retail, having held this position since march 2017. during his 25-year career with the company, mr. wheatley has served in a number of key leadership roles, including vice president of medicare service operations and president of the east region, one of the company's key medicare geographies. (13) mrs. zipperle currently serves as senior vice president, chief accounting officer and controller, having held this position since december 2014. mrs. zipperle previously served as the vice president - finance from january 2013 until her election to her current role, and as the assistant controller from january 1998 until january 2013. executive officers are elected annually by our board of directors and serve until their successors are elected or until resignation or removal. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. 18 item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, if we are unable to implement clinical initiatives to provide a better health care experience for our members, lower costs and appropriately document the risk profile of our members, or if our estimates of benefits expense are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefits expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. we continually review these estimates, however these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. any reserve, including a premium deficiency reserve, may be insufficient. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves, including premium deficiency reserves where appropriate. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services; increased cost of such services; increased use or cost of prescription drugs, including specialty prescription drugs; the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits, member eligibility criteria, or other legislative, judicial, or regulatory changes, including any that result from the health care reform law. key to our operational strategy is the implementation of clinical initiatives that we believe provide a better health care experience for our members, lower the cost of healthcare services delivered to our members, and appropriately document the risk profile of our members. our profitability and competitiveness depend in large part on our ability to 19 appropriately manage health care costs through, among other things, the application of medical management programs such as our chronic care management program. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage our operating expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, any costs associated with exiting products, additional investment in new products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs, state-based contracts, and expansion of clinical capabilities as part of our integrated care delivery model), investments in health and well-being product offerings, acquisitions, new taxes and assessments (including the non-deductible health insurance industry fee), and implementation of regulatory requirements may increase our operating expenses. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or effectively manage our operating expenses, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program or competitors in the delivery of health care services. we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform, and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. the policies and decisions of the federal and state governments regarding the medicare, military and medicaid programs in which we participate have a substantial impact on our profitability. these governmental policies and decisions, which we cannot predict with certainty, directly shape the premiums or other revenues to us under the programs, the eligibility and enrollment of our members, the services we provide to our members, and our administrative, health care services, and other costs associated with these programs. legislative or regulatory actions, such as changes to the programs in which we participate, those resulting in a reduction in premium payments to us, an increase in our cost of administrative and health care services, or additional fees, taxes or assessments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose membership with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives and our state-based contracts strategy, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in these products. in addition, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our star ratings in future years. our future performance depends in large part upon our ability to execute our strategy, including opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare programs, the successful implementation of our integrated care delivery model and our strategy with respect to state-based contracts, including those covering members dually eligible for the medicare and medicaid programs. 20 we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we offer both stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plans with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer a medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare products is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare products in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in medicare products. there is significant concentration of our revenues in medicare products, with approximately 82% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2019 generated from our medicare products, including 15% derived from our individual medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. the achievement of star ratings of 4-star or higher qualifies medicare advantage plans for premium bonuses. our medicare advantage plans' operating results may be significantly affected by their star ratings. despite our operational efforts to improve our star ratings, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our star ratings in future years. in addition, audits of our performance for past or future periods may result in downgrades to our star ratings. accordingly, our plans may not be eligible for full level quality bonuses, which could adversely affect the benefits such plans can offer, reduce membership and/or reduce profit margins. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have reduced the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. there can be no assurance that our information technology, or it, process will successfully improve existing systems, develop new systems to support our expanding operations, integrate new systems, protect our proprietary information, defend against cybersecurity attacks, or improve service levels. in addition, there can be no assurance that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our 21 information systems and data, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we are unable to defend our information technology security systems against cybersecurity attacks or prevent other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or in the unintended dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could be exposed to significant regulatory fines or penalties, liability or reputational damage, or experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or a third-party. we have been, and will likely continue to be, regular targets of attempted cybersecurity attacks and other security threats and may be subject to breaches of our information technology security systems. although the impact of such attacks has not been material to our operations or results of operations, financial position, or cash flow through december 31, 2019, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, or contain the effects of such cybersecurity attacks or other information security risks or threats in the future. a cybersecurity attack may penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, cause shutdowns, or deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our systems. a cybersecurity attack that bypasses our it security systems successfully could materially affect us due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property, operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our it systems, or negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our members, customers, providers, and other stakeholders. in certain circumstances we may rely on third party vendors to process, store and transmit large amounts of data for our businesses whose operations are subject to similar risks. the costs to eliminate or address cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities before or after an incident could be substantial. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential members. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information about us or our members or other third-parties, could expose our associates' or members' private information and result in the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in significant regulatory fines or penalties, litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. we are involved in various legal actions and governmental and internal investigations, any of which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages or changes in our business practices. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are or may become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including breach of contract actions, employment compensation and other labor and employment practice suits, employee benefit claims, stockholder suits and other securities laws claims, intellectual and other property claims, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management, and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; 22 medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers' alleged malpractice; claims arising from any adverse medical consequences resulting from our recommendations about the appropriateness of providers' proposed medical treatment plans for patients; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation or non-acceptance or termination of provider contracts; disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that we, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government including, among other allegations, resulting from coding and review practices under the medicare risk-adjustment model; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house dispensing pharmacies; and professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may materially adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services or otherwise change our business practices, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see "legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters" in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. - financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these matters with certainty. as a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. these programs accounted for approximately 87% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2019 . these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2019 , under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 701,400 individual medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 15% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2019 . the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us or increases in member benefits or 23 changes to member eligibility criteria without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2019, our military services business, which accounted for approximately 1% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2019 , primarily consisted of the tricare t2017 east region contract. the t2017 east region contract is a consolidation of the former t3 north and south regions, comprising thirty-two states and approximately 6 million tricare beneficiaries, under which delivery of health care services commenced on january 1, 2018. the t2017 east region contract is a 5 -year contract set to expire on december 31, 2022 and is subject to renewals on january 1 of each year during its term at the government's option. the loss of the tricare t2017 east region contract may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. as a government contractor, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that the government contractor submitted false claims to the government. litigation of this nature is filed under seal to allow the government an opportunity to investigate and to decide if it wishes to intervene and assume control of the litigation. if the government does not intervene, the lawsuit is unsealed, and the individual may continue to prosecute the action on his or her own. cms uses a risk-adjustment model which adjusts premiums paid to medicare advantage, or ma, plans according to health status of covered members. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits improvement and protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more where a plan's membership has higher expected costs. under this model, rates paid to ma plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on our estimated cost of providing standard medicare-covered benefits to an enrollee with a "national average risk profile." that baseline payment amount is adjusted to reflect the health status of our enrolled membership. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all ma plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses the diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to ma plans, which cms adjusts for coding pattern differences between the health plans and the government fee-for-service program. we generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to cms as the basis for our payment received from cms under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. we also rely on these providers to document appropriately all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. in addition, we conduct medical record reviews as part of our data and payment accuracy compliance efforts, to more accurately reflect diagnosis conditions under the risk adjustment model. these compliance efforts include the internal contract level audits described in more detail below, as well as ordinary course reviews of our internal business processes. cms is phasing-in the process of calculating risk scores using diagnoses data from the risk adjustment processing system, or raps, to diagnoses data from the encounter data system, or eds. the raps process requires ma plans to apply a filter logic based on cms guidelines and only submit diagnoses that satisfy those guidelines. for submissions through eds, cms requires ma plans to submit all the encounter data and cms will apply the risk adjustment filtering logic to determine the risk scores. for 2019 , 25% of the risk score was calculated from claims data submitted through eds. cms will increase that percentage to 50% in 2020 and has proposed to increase that percentage to 75% in 2021 . the phase-in from raps to eds could result in different risk scores from each dataset as a result of plan processing issues, cms processing issues, or filtering logic differences between raps and eds, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. cms and the office of the inspector general of health and human services, or hhs-oig, are continuing to perform audits of various companies' selected ma contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. 24 we refer to these audits as risk-adjustment data validation audits, or radv audits. radv audits review medical records in an attempt to validate provider medical record documentation and coding practices which influence the calculation of premium payments to ma plans. in 2012, cms released a notice of final payment error calculation methodology for part c medicare advantage risk adjustment data validation (radv) contract-level audits. the payment error calculation methodology provided that, in calculating the economic impact of audit results for an ma contract, if any, the results of the radv audit sample would be extrapolated to the entire ma contract after a comparison of the audit results to a similar audit of the government's traditional fee-for-service medicare program, or medicare ffs. we refer to the process of accounting for errors in ffs claims as the "ffs adjuster." this comparison of radv audit results to the ffs error rate is necessary to determine the economic impact, if any, of radv audit results because the government used the medicare ffs program data set, including any attendant errors that are present in that data set, to estimate the costs of various health status conditions and to set the resulting adjustments to ma plans' payment rates in order to establish actuarial equivalence in payment rates as required under the medicare statute. cms already makes other adjustments to payment rates based on a comparison of coding pattern differences between ma plans and medicare ffs data (such as for frequency of coding for certain diagnoses in ma plan data versus the medicare ffs program dataset). the final radv extrapolation methodology, including the first application of extrapolated audit results to determine audit settlements, is expected to be applied to cms radv contract level audits conducted for contract year 2011 and subsequent years. cms is currently conducting radv contract level audits for certain of our medicare advantage plans. estimated audit settlements are recorded as a reduction of premiums revenue in our consolidated statements of income, based upon available information. we perform internal contract level audits based on the radv audit methodology prescribed by cms. included in these internal contract level audits is an audit of our private fee-for service business which we used to represent a proxy of the ffs adjuster which has not yet been finalized. we based our accrual of estimated audit settlements for each contract year on the results of these internal contract level audits and update our estimates as each audit is completed. estimates derived from these results were not material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. we report the results of these internal contract level audits to cms, including identified overpayments, if any. on october 26, 2018, cms issued a proposed rule and accompanying materials (which we refer to as the proposed rule ) related to, among other things, the radv audit methodology described above. if implemented, the proposed rule would use extrapolation in radv audits applicable to payment year 2011 contract-level audits and all subsequent audits, without the application of a ffs adjuster to audit findings. we believe that the proposed rule fails to address adequately the statutory requirement of actuarial equivalence, and have provided substantive comments to cms on the proposed rule as part of the notice-and-comment rulemaking process. whether, and to what extent, cms finalizes the proposed rule, and any related regulatory, industry or company reactions, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, as part of our internal compliance efforts, we routinely perform ordinary course reviews of our internal business processes related to, among other things, our risk coding and data submissions in connection with the risk- adjustment model. these reviews may also result in the identification of errors and the submission of corrections to cms, that may, either individually or in the aggregate, be material. as such, the result of these reviews may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. we believe that cms' statements and policies regarding the requirement to report and return identified overpayments received by ma plans are inconsistent with cms' 2012 radv audit methodology, and the medicare statute's requirements. these statements and policies, such as certain statements contained in the preamble to cms' final rule release regarding medicare advantage and part d prescription drug benefit program regulations for contract year 2015 (which we refer to as the "overpayment rule"), and the proposed 25 rule, appear to equate each medicare advantage risk adjustment data error with an overpayment without addressing the principles underlying the ffs adjuster referenced above. on september 7, 2018, the federal district court for the district of columbia vacated cms's overpayment rule, concluding that it violated the medicare statute, including the requirement for actuarial equivalence, and that the overpayment rule was also arbitrary and capricious in departing from cms's radv methodology without adequate explanation (among other reasons). cms has appealed the decision to the circuit court of appeals. we will continue to work with cms to ensure that ma plans are paid accurately and that payment model principles are in accordance with the requirements of the social security act, which, if not implemented correctly could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members' prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premiums revenue related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net payable of $170 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms's portion of claims costs which exceed the member's out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms's prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the applicable year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms's claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms's claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment which we would have otherwise received as a low-income subsidy or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms's share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. we are also subject to various other governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations, including audits of risk adjustment data, are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, hhs-oig, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. the outcome of any current or future governmental or internal investigations cannot be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. nevertheless, it is reasonably possible that any such outcome of 26 litigation, penalties, fines or other sanctions could be substantial, and the outcome of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. certain of these matters could also affect our reputation. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or legislative, judicial, or regulatory changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application could increase our cost of doing business and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs by, among other things, requiring a minimum benefit ratio on insured products, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows. the health care reform law and other current or future legislative, judicial or regulatory changes the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. certain significant provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to medicare advantage premiums, the establishment of federally facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, and the introduction of plan designs based on set actuarial values. in addition, the health care reform law established insurance industry assessments, including an annual health insurance industry fee. the annual health insurance industry fee was suspended in 2019, but will resume for calendar year 2020, not be deductible for income tax purposes, and significantly increase our effective tax rate. in 2018, the fee levied on the health insurance industry was $14.3 billion . under current law, the health industry fee will be permanently repealed beginning in calendar year 2021. it is reasonably possible that the health care reform law and related regulations, as well as other current or future legislative, judicial or regulatory changes, including restrictions on our ability to manage our provider network or otherwise operate our business, or restrictions on profitability, including reviews by regulatory bodies that may compare our medicare advantage business profitability to our non-medicare advantage business profitability, or compare the profitability of various products within our medicare advantage business, and require that they remain within certain ranges of each other, increases in member benefits or changes to member eligibility criteria without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, or increases in regulation of our prescription drug benefit businesses, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs, further lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows. additionally, potential legislative changes or judicial determinations, including activities to repeal or replace the health care reform law or declare all or certain portions of the health care reform law unconstitutional, creates uncertainty for our business, and we cannot predict when, or in what form, such legislative changes or judicial determinations may occur. health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (hitech act) the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes 27 administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers, and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information, including requirements that insurers provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal information is used, including an opportunity to "opt out" of certain disclosures. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans and providers). the hitech act, one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, significantly broadened the scope of the privacy and security regulations of hipaa. among other requirements, the hitech act and hipaa mandate individual notification in the event of a breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information, provides enhanced penalties for hipaa violations, requires business associates to comply with certain provisions of the hipaa privacy and security rule, and grants enforcement authority to state attorneys general in addition to the hhs office of civil rights. in addition, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. state statutes and regulations vary from state to state and could impose additional penalties. violations of hipaa or applicable federal or state laws or regulations could subject us to significant criminal or civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa and other privacy regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to hhs in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business associates to comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa's provisions and requires hhs to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. corporate practice of medicine and other laws as a corporate entity, humana inc. is not licensed to practice medicine. many states in which we operate through our subsidiaries limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. under management agreements between certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed healthcare providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. we believe that our health services operations comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, and similar issues. however, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these statutes, which could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. 28 anti-kickback, physician self-referral, and other fraud and abuse laws a federal law commonly referred to as the anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of medicare or other governmental health program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease, or order of items or services that are covered by medicare or other federal governmental health programs. because the prohibitions contained in the anti-kickback statute apply to the furnishing of items or services for which payment is made in whole or in part, the anti-kickback statute could be implicated if any portion of an item or service we provide is covered by any of the state or federal health benefit programs described above. violation of these provisions constitutes a felony criminal offense and applicable sanctions could include exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. section 1877 of the social security act, commonly known as the stark law, prohibits physicians, subject to certain exceptions described below, from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity providing designated health services in which the physician, or an immediate family member, has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has entered into a compensation arrangement. these prohibitions, contained in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1993, commonly known as stark ii, amended prior federal physician self-referral legislation known as stark i by expanding the list of designated health services to a total of 11 categories of health services. the professional groups with which we are affiliated provide one or more of these designated health services. persons or entities found to be in violation of the stark law are subject to denial of payment for services furnished pursuant to an improper referral, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. many states also have enacted laws similar in scope and purpose to the anti-kickback statute and, in more limited instances, the stark law, that are not limited to services for which medicare or medicaid payment is made. in addition, most states have statutes, regulations, or professional codes that restrict a physician from accepting various kinds of remuneration in exchange for making referrals. these laws vary from state to state and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. in states that have enacted these statutes, we believe that regulatory authorities and state courts interpreting these statutes may regard federal law under the anti-kickback statute and the stark law as persuasive. we believe that our operations comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, and similar federal or state laws addressing fraud and abuse. these laws are subject to modification and changes in interpretation, and are enforced by authorities vested with broad discretion. we continually monitor developments in this area. if these laws are interpreted in a manner contrary to our interpretation or are reinterpreted or amended, or if new legislation is enacted with respect to healthcare fraud and abuse, illegal remuneration, or similar issues, we may be required to restructure our affected operations to maintain compliance with applicable law. there can be no assurances that any such restructuring will be possible or, if possible, would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. environmental we are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment. if an environmental regulatory agency finds any of our facilities to be in violation of environmental laws, penalties and fines may be imposed for each day of violation and the affected facility could be forced to cease operations. we could also incur other significant costs, such as cleanup costs or claims by third parties, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. although we believe that our environmental practices, including waste handling and disposal practices, are in material compliance with applicable laws, future claims or violations, or changes in environmental laws, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 29 state regulation of insurance-related products laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: capital adequacy and other licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate increases, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed insurance subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue our acquisition strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, transactions outside of our core business space, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. the failure to successfully integrate acquired entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of our acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic alliances may cause asset write-offs, restructuring costs or other expenses and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. in addition, from time to time, we evaluate alternatives for our businesses that do not meet our strategic, growth or profitability objectives, and we may divest or wind down such businesses. there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such divestiture on terms favorable to us. the divestiture of certain businesses could result, individually or in the aggregate, in the recognition of material losses and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, divestitures may result in continued financial exposure to the divested businesses following the completion of the transaction. for example, in connection with a disposition, we may enter into transition or administrative service agreements, coinsurance arrangements, vendor relationships or other strategic relationships with the divested business, or we may agree to provide certain indemnities to the purchaser in any such transaction, each of which may result in additional expense and could have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we employ or contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. a key component of our integrated care delivery strategy is to increase the number of providers who share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations, or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate unfavorable contracts with us or place us at a competitive 30 disadvantage, or do not enter into contracts with us that encourage the delivery of quality medical services in a cost-effective manner, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care providers for an actuarially determined, fixed fee per month to provide a basket of required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our in-house dispensing pharmacy business competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, internet companies and other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state's board of pharmacy. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations, requiring registration with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the u.s. department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, including manufacturing or other supply issues that could impact the availability of such products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-order pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose us to civil and criminal penalties. changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. it is uncertain whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. regulators have conducted investigations into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our in-house dispensing 31 pharmacy business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our in-house dispensing and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from certain of our licensed subsidiaries is restricted by state insurance regulations. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. certain of our insurance subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, administrative expense reimbursements or other cash transfers to humana inc., and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these insurance subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, or ordinary dividends, is limited based on the entity's level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. dividends from our non-insurance companies such as in our healthcare services segment are generally not restricted by departments of insurance. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. in addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would 32 increase, our sales and earnings could decrease, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, acquisitions, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months, as well as to refinance or repay debt, and repurchase shares. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. in the past we have, and in the future we may enter into interest rate swap agreements depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either libor plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2019 or december 31, 2018 . interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with a weighted average s&amp;p credit rating of aa at december 31, 2019 . our net unrealized position increased $415 million from a net unrealized loss position of $204 million at december 31, 2018 to a net unrealized gain position of $211 million at december 31, 2019 . at december 31, 2019 , we had gross unrealized losses of $8 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates since the time the securities were purchased. there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2019 . while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio's cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 2.5 years as of december 31, 2019 and 2.9 years as of december 31, 2018 . based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $373 million . we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200, and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may affect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 10 year us treasury rates during the year have not exceeded 300 basis points, have changed between 200 and 300 basis points once , have changed between 100 and 200 basis points four times , and have changed by less than 100 basis points five times . 65 increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in millions) as of december 31, 2019 investment income (a) $ (150 ) $ (133 ) $ (79 ) $ 78 $ 157 $ 235 interest expense (b) 10 9 4 (4 ) (9 ) (13 ) pretax $ (140 ) $ (124 ) $ (75 ) $ 74 $ 148 $ 222 as of december 31, 2018 investment income (a) $ (154 ) $ (114 ) $ (57 ) $ 58 $ 116 $ 175 interest expense (b) 31 20 10 (10 ) (20 ) (31 ) pretax $ (123 ) $ (94 ) $ (47 ) $ 48 $ 96 $ 144 (a) as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 2% point reduction. (b) the interest rate under our senior notes is fixed. there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2019 or december 31, 2018 . there was $300 million and $645 million outstanding under our commercial paper program at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. as of december 31, 2019, our interest rate under our commercial paper program was less than 3% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 3% point reduction. 66quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item appears in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations item 7 herein, under the caption market risk-sensitive financial instruments and positions. 58 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56risk factors 17 risk factors for a description of a number of factors that could adversely affect our results or business. business segments we manage our business with two segments: government and commercial. the government segment consists of members enrolled in government-sponsored programs, and includes three lines of business: medicare advantage, tricare, and medicaid. the commercial segment consists of members enrolled in products marketed to employer groups and individuals, and includes three lines of business: fully insured medical, administrative services only, or aso, and specialty. we identified our segments in accordance with the aggregation provisions of statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 131, disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information, or sfas 131, which is consistent with information used by our chief executive officer in managing our business. the segment information aggregates products with similar economic characteristics. these characteristics include the nature of customer groups and pricing, benefits and underwriting requirements. the results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. we allocate all selling, general and administrative expenses, investment and other income, interest expense, and goodwill, but no other assets or liabilities, to our segments. members served by our two segments often utilize the same medical provider networks, enabling us to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. our segments also share overhead costs and assets. as a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. we believe our customer, membership, revenue, and pretax income diversification across segments and products allows us to increase our chances of success. 3 table of contents our products the following table presents our segment membership, premiums and aso fees by product for the year ended december 31, 2005: medical membership* specialty membership* premiums aso fees total premiums and aso fees percent of total premiums and aso fees (dollars in thousands) government: medicare advantage: hmo 427,900 $ 4,092,166 $ $ 4,092,166 28.7 % pffs 121,300 459,474 459,474 3.2 % ppo 8,600 38,722 38,722 0.3 % total medicare advantage 557,800 4,590,362 4,590,362 32.2 % medicaid 457,900 548,714 548,714 3.8 % tricare 1,750,900 2,407,653 2,407,653 16.9 % tricare aso 1,138,200 50,059 50,059 0.4 % total government 3,904,800 7,546,729 50,059 7,596,788 53.3 % commercial: fully insured: ppo 1,295,200 3,635,347 3,635,347 25.5 % hmo 704,600 2,432,768 2,432,768 17.1 % total fully insured 1,999,800 6,068,115 6,068,115 42.6 % aso 1,171,000 209,378 209,378 1.4 % specialty 1,902,100 386,747 386,747 2.7 % total commercial 3,170,800 1,902,100 6,454,862 209,378 6,664,240 46.7 % total 7,075,600 1,902,100 $ 14,001,591 $ 259,437 $ 14,261,028 100.0 % * as of december 31, 2005. our products marketed to government segment members and beneficiaries medicare advantage products medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide health insurance benefits to medicare eligible persons under health maintenance organization, or hmo, preferred provider organization, or ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary generally receives benefits in excess of traditional medicare, typically including a prescription drug benefit, a reduced monthly part b premium, or reduced cost sharing. beginning in 2006, medicare beneficiaries have more health plan options, including a prescription drug benefit option and greater access to a ppo offering with the roll-out of regional 4 table of contents ppo plans. prior to 2006, ppo plans were offered on a local basis only. most medicare advantage plans must offer the prescription drug benefit as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers, or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations, hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in many cases, these beneficiaries also may be required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan, in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. our medicare pffs plans, which cover eligible medicare beneficiaries in certain states, have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive enhanced prescription drug benefits and have the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at reimbursement rates equivalent to traditional medicare payment rates. medicare uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to managed care plans. in the last decade, congress has made several changes to how cms must calculate these rates. the old (pre-1998) methodology was based on the adjusted average per capita cost methodology, or aapcc. under aapcc, cms projected average county-level fee-for-service spending for the coming year to set the fixed monthly payments for medicare health plans at 95 percent of the full aapcc amount. under the aapcc system, payment rates per county varied widely. for example, the 1997 payment rate for beneficiaries 65 and older for part a and part b services ranged from a low of $220.92 in arthur county, nebraska to a high of $767.35 in richmond county, staten island, new york. some states saw differences of more than 20 percent between adjacent counties. since county fee-for-service costs were used to estimate county managed care payment rates, the rates reflected differences among counties and regions in fee-for-service utilization patterns and cost structures. in the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba), congress created a new rate-setting methodology, eliminating the direct link in the aapcc method between managed care rates and local fee-for-service costs. as a result, the wide disparities in county payment rates were reduced, bringing all payment rates closer to the national average. additionally, the bba required cms to implement a risk adjustment payment system for medicare health plans. risk adjustment uses health status indicators to improve the accuracy of payments and establish incentives for plans to enroll and treat less healthy medicare beneficiaries. cms initially phased-in this payment methodology with a risk adjustment model that based payment on principal hospital inpatient diagnoses, as well as demographic factors such as gender, age, and medicaid eligibility. from 2000 to 2003, risk adjusted payment accounted for only 10 percent of medicare health plans payment, with the remaining 90 percent being based on demographic factors. pursuant to the benefits and improvements protection act of 2000 (bipa), cms implemented a new risk adjustment model that uses additional diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits). cms has also redesigned its data collection and processing system to further reduce administrative data burden on medicare health plans. in 2005, the portion of risk adjusted payment was increased to 50 percent, from 30 percent in 2004. the phase-in of risk adjusted payment will be increased to 75% in 2006 and to 100% in 2007. under the new risk adjustment methodology, all managed care organizations must capture, collect, and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. commensurate with phase-in of the new risk-adjustment methodology, payments to medicare advantage plans have been increased by a budget neutrality factor. the budget neutrality factor was implemented to prevent overall health plan payments from being reduced during the transition to the new risk-adjustment 5 table of contents payment model. the payment adjustments for budget neutrality were first developed in 2002 and began to be used with the 2003 payments. the budget neutrality adjustment will begin phasing out in 2007 and will be fully eliminated by 2011. this does not mean, however, that the aggregate per-member payments to medicare plans will be reduced. as plans enroll less healthy beneficiaries, the need for the budget neutrality adjustment declines as the underlying risk adjusted medicare rates paid to plans increase to account for their enrollees greater healthcare needs. as a result of changes in the cms payment processes, including the phasing in of the risk adjustment methodology and the phasing out of the budget neutrality adjustment described previously, our cms payments per member may change materially, either favorably or unfavorably. at december 31, 2005, we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 557,800 medicare advantage members for which we received premium revenues of approximately $4.6 billion, or 32.2% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2005. under our contracts with cms in florida, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 295,400 members. these contracts accounted for premium revenues of approximately $2.8 billion, which represented approximately 60.9% of our medicare advantage premium revenues, or 19.9% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2005. our hmo, ppo and pffs products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies humana of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the contract year, or humana notifies cms of its decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the contract year. medicare prescription drug products on january 1, 2006, we began covering members in prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d. for 2006 coverage, medicare-eligible individuals may enroll between november 15, 2005 and may 15, 2006 in one of our three plan choices. these three plan choices, standard, enhanced and complete, may vary in terms of coverage levels and out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles and co-insurance with the standard plan offering the minimum benefits mandated by congress. our bid amount generally represents the payment we receive from cms. however, this payment is subject to adjustments and subsidies in order for humana and cms to share the risk associated with financing the ultimate cost of the health benefit. further, the amount of the payment we receive from cms is subject to the risk adjustment payment process previously described in order to take into account beneficiaries health status risk factors. unlike our medicare advantage products, there is no phase-in of the risk adjustment payment process for our pdp products. our pdp products covered under medicare part d contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies humana of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the contract year, or humana notifies cms of its decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the contract year. medicare presence the following table sets forth the number of markets in which we sold our medicare advantage and pdp products as of january 1, 2006, as compared with january 1, 2005 and 2004: 2006 2005 2004 hmo (localities) 12 12 11 local ppo (localities) 33 30 1 regional ppo (states) 23 pffs (states) 35 35 12 pdp (states) 46 in addition, we are marketing our hmo and pffs products in puerto rico for coverage beginning january 1, 2006. 6 table of contents medicaid product medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to facilitate the delivery of health care services to low-income residents. each electing state develops, through a state specific regulatory agency, a medicaid managed care initiative that must be approved by cms. cms requires that medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. states currently either use a formal proposal process in which they review many bidders before selecting one or award individual contracts to qualified bidders who apply for entry to the program. in either case, the contractual relationship with a state generally is for a one-year period. under these contracts, we receive a fixed monthly payment from a government agency for which we are required to provide health insurance coverage to enrolled members. due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a managed care product in their medicaid programs. our medicaid business, which accounted for approximately 3.8% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2005, consisted of contracts in puerto rico, florida and illinois. our 3-year medicaid contracts with the puerto rico health insurance administration, which accounted for approximately 2.8% of our total premium and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2005, were extended a fourth year and these contracts expire on june 30, 2006. we are preparing to bid on the new contracts that will be effective july 2006 although a request for such proposal has not yet been issued by the puerto rico health insurance administration. at this time we are unable to predict the ultimate impact that any government policy decisions might have on our medicaid contracts in puerto rico. our other current medicaid contract, which is in florida, is scheduled to expire on june 30, 2006. due to medicaid reform in florida, we are currently negotiating the terms and rates for the renewal contract. we expect the current contract to be extended until august 31, 2006, and the subsequent renewal contract to be effective for a two-year term beginning september 1, 2006. due to continual decreases in the reimbursement from the state of illinois, we exited the illinois medicaid market effective july 31, 2005. the illinois and florida medicaid contracts accounted for approximately 1.0% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2005. tricare tricare provides health insurance coverage to the dependents of active duty military personnel and to retired military personnel and their dependents. currently, three health benefit options are available to tricare beneficiaries. in addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in an hmo-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the united states department of defense. our current tricare south region contract, which we were awarded in 2003, covers approximately 2.9 million eligible beneficiaries as of december 31, 2005 in florida, georgia, south carolina, mississippi, alabama, tennessee, louisiana, arkansas, texas and oklahoma. the south region is one of the three regions in the united states as defined by the department of defense. of these eligible beneficiaries, 1.1 million were tricare aso members representing active duty beneficiaries, seniors over the age of 65 and beneficiaries in puerto rico for which the department of defense retains all of the risk of financing the cost of their health benefit. the tricare south region contract is for a five-year period subject to annual renewals at the federal government option, with the third option period scheduled to begin april 1, 2006. we have subcontracted with third parties to provide selected administration and specialty services under the contract. the tricare south region contract contains provisions that require us to negotiate a target health care cost amount annually with the federal government. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. as such, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care 7 table of contents cost amount could have a material adverse effect on our business. these changes may include, for example, an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military presence around the world. in the event government reimbursements were to decline from projected amounts, our failure to reduce the health care costs associated with these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business. during 2004, we completed a contractual transition of our tricare business. on july 1, 2004, our regions 2 and 5 contract servicing approximately 1.1 million tricare members became part of the new north region, which was awarded to another contractor. on august 1, 2004, our regions 3 and 4 contract became part of our new south region contract. on november 1, 2004, the region 6 contract with approximately 1 million members became part of the south region contract. the members added with the region 6 contract essentially offset the members lost four months earlier with the expiration of our regions 2 and 5 contract. for the year ended december 31, 2005, tricare premium revenues were approximately $2.4 billion, or 16.9% of our total premiums and aso fees. part of the tricare transition during 2004 included the carve out of the tricare senior pharmacy and tricare for life program which we previously administered on as aso basis. on june 1, 2004 and august 1, 2004, administrative services under these programs were transferred to another contractor. for the year ended december 31, 2005, tricare administrative services fees totaled $50.1 million, or 0.4% of our total premiums and aso fees. our products marketed to commercial segment employers and members consumer-choice products over the last several years, we have developed and offered various commercial products designed to provide options and choices to employers that are annually facing substantial premium increases driven by double-digit medical cost inflation. these consumer-choice products, which can be offered on either a fully insured or aso basis, provided coverage to approximately 371,100 members at december 31, 2005, representing approximately 11.7% of our total commercial medical membership as detailed below. consumer-choice membership other commercial membership commercial medical membership fully insured 184,000 1,815,800 1,999,800 administrative services only 187,100 983,900 1,171,000 total commercial medical 371,100 2,799,700 3,170,800 these products are often offered to employer groups as bundles , where the subscribers are offered various hmo and ppo options, with various employer contribution strategies as determined by the employer. paramount to our consumer-choice product strategy, we have developed a group of innovative consumer products, styled as smart products, that we believe will be a long-term solution for employers. we believe this new generation of products provides more (1) choices for the individual consumer, (2) transparency of provider costs, and (3) benefit designs that engage consumers in the costs and effectiveness of health care choices. innovative tools and technology are available to assist consumers with these decisions, including the trade-offs between higher premiums and point-of-service costs at the time consumers choose their plans, and to suggest ways in which the consumers can maximize their individual benefits at the point they use their plans. we believe that when consumers can make informed choices about the cost and effectiveness of their health care, a sustainable long term solution for employers can be realized. smart products, which accounted for approximately 65.1% of enrollment in all of our consumer-choice plans as of december 31, 2005, only are sold to employers who use humana as their sole health insurance carrier. 8 table of contents some employers have selected other types of consumer-choice products, such as, (1) a product with a high deductible, (2) a catastrophic coverage plan, or (3) ones that offer a spending account option in conjunction with more traditional medical coverage or as a stand alone plan. unlike our smart products, these products, while valuable in helping employers deal with near-term cost increases by shifting costs to employees, are not considered by us to be long-term comprehensive solutions to the employers cost dilemma, although we view this as an important initial interim step. hmo our hmo products provide prepaid health insurance coverage to our members through a network of independent primary care physicians, specialty physicians, and other health care providers who contract with the hmo to furnish such services. primary care physicians generally include internists, family practitioners, and pediatricians. generally, the member primary care physician must approve access to certain specialty physicians and other health care providers. these other health care providers include, among others, hospitals, nursing homes, home health agencies, pharmacies, mental health and substance abuse centers, diagnostic centers, optometrists, outpatient surgery centers, dentists, urgent care centers, and durable medical equipment suppliers. because the primary care physician generally must approve access to many of these other health care providers, the hmo product is considered the most restrictive form of a health benefit plan. an hmo member, typically through the member employer, pays a monthly fee, which generally covers, together with some copayments, health care services received from, or approved by, the member primary care physician. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and former spouses. for the year ended december 31, 2005, commercial hmo premium revenues totaled approximately $2.4 billion, or 17.1% of our total premiums and aso fees. ppo our ppo products, which are marketed primarily to commercial groups and individuals, include some elements of managed health care. however, they typically include more cost-sharing with the member, through copayments and annual deductibles. ppos also are similar to traditional health insurance because they provide a member with more freedom to choose a physician or other health care provider. in a ppo, the member is encouraged, through financial incentives, to use participating health care providers, which have contracted with the ppo to provide services at favorable rates. in the event a member chooses not to use a participating health care provider, the member may be required to pay a greater portion of the provider fees. as part of our ppo products, we offer humanaone, a major medical product marketed directly to individuals. we offer this product in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. this individual product includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage. for the year ended december 31, 2005, commercial and individual ppo premium revenues totaled approximately $3.6 billion, or 25.5% of our total premiums and aso fees. administrative services only we also offer aso products to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully insured ppo, hmo or consumer-choice products described above. under aso contracts, self-funded employers 9 table of contents retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, most aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. for the year ended december 31, 2005, commercial aso fees totaled $209.4 million, or 1.4% of our total premiums and aso fees. specialty products we additionally offer various specialty products including dental, group and individual life, and short-term disability. at december 31, 2005, we had approximately 1.9 million specialty members, including 1.5 million dental members. for the year ended december 31, 2005, specialty product premium revenues were approximately $386.7 million, or 2.7% of our total premiums and aso fees. the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2005, by market and product: commercial government total percent of total hmo ppo aso medicare advantage medicaid tricare (in thousands) florida 161.4 150.9 101.9 295.4 54.8 764.4 10.8 % texas 65.5 299.1 237.9 25.3 627.8 8.9 puerto rico 18.9 69.1 6.9 7.1 403.1 505.1 7.1 illinois 98.5 154.8 158.4 36.8 448.5 6.3 kentucky 23.2 162.4 195.2 2.0 382.8 5.4 ohio 98.9 60.3 188.8 4.1 352.1 5.0 wisconsin 52.3 64.3 179.1 17.5 313.2 4.4 louisiana 118.8 31.6 9.7 38.1 198.2 2.8 arizona 17.6 52.4 31.1 19.7 120.8 1.7 missouri/kansas 27.4 27.2 12.8 24.2 91.6 1.3 indiana 0.4 51.1 36.5 1.3 89.3 1.3 georgia 21.7 29.2 1.9 13.1 65.9 0.9 michigan 58.3 1.7 1.8 61.8 0.9 colorado 43.1 0.5 43.6 0.6 tennessee 22.9 3.9 5.0 31.8 0.4 south carolina 1.4 0.2 17.1 18.7 0.3 north carolina 4.1 1.5 13.0 18.6 0.3 minnesota 0.3 11.3 11.6 0.2 tricare 1,750.9 1,750.9 24.7 tricare aso 1,138.2 1,138.2 16.1 others 13.0 3.2 24.5 40.7 0.6 totals 704.6 1,295.2 1,171.0 557.8 457.9 2,889.1 7,075.6 100.0 % provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care physicians, specialist physicians, dentists and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. we have approximately 559,000 contracts with health care providers participating in our networks, which consist of approximately 336,300 physicians, 3,600 hospitals, and 219,100 ancillary providers and dentists. these ancillary services and facilities include ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. 10 table of contents we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems and enrolling members into various disease management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care physician who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services, by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provisions of quality patient care are met. our hospitalist programs use specially-trained physicians to effectively manage the entire range of an hmo member medical care during a hospital admission and to effectively coordinate the member discharge and post-discharge care. we have available a variety of disease management programs related to specific medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index or other nationally recognized inflation index. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice to the other party of their intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. capitation for 4.4% of our december 31, 2005 medical membership, we contract with hospitals and physicians to accept financial risk for a defined set of hmo membership. in transferring this risk, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to coordinate substantially all of the medical care for their capitated hmo membership, including some health benefit administrative functions and claims processing. for these capitated hmo arrangements, we generally agree to reimbursement rates that target a medical expense ratio ranging from 82% to 89%. providers participating in hospital-based capitated hmo arrangements generally receive a monthly payment for all of the services within their system for their hmo membership. providers participating in physician-based capitated hmo arrangements generally have subcontracted directly with hospitals and specialist physicians, and are responsible for reimbursing such hospitals and physicians for services rendered to their hmo membership. for 7.8% of our december 31, 2005 medical membership, we contract with physicians under risk-sharing arrangements whereby physicians have assumed some level of risk for all or a portion of the medical costs of their hmo membership. although these arrangements do include capitation payments for services rendered, we process substantially all of the claims under these arrangements. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. 11 table of contents medical membership under these various arrangements was as follows at december 31, 2005 and 2004: commercial segment government segment consol. total medical fully insured aso total segment medicare advantage medicaid tricare tricare aso total segment medical membership: december 31, 2005 capitated hmo hospital system based 42,600 42,600 35,200 35,200 77,800 capitated hmo physician group based 39,500 39,500 23,300 170,400 193,700 233,200 risk-sharing 49,700 49,700 230,200 274,200 504,400 554,100 other 1,868,000 1,171,000 3,039,000 269,100 13,300 1,750,900 1,138,200 3,171,500 6,210,500 total 1,999,800 1,171,000 3,170,800 557,800 457,900 1,750,900 1,138,200 3,904,800 7,075,600 december 31, 2004 capitated hmo hospital system based 70,300 70,300 38,400 17,400 55,800 126,100 capitated hmo physician group based 56,300 56,300 4,200 188,200 192,400 248,700 risk-sharing 68,000 68,000 208,300 240,700 449,000 517,000 other 2,091,900 1,018,600 3,110,500 126,300 32,300 1,789,400 1,082,400 3,030,400 6,140,900 total 2,286,500 1,018,600 3,305,100 377,200 478,600 1,789,400 1,082,400 3,727,600 7,032,700 medical membership distribution: december 31, 2005 capitated hmo hospital system based 2.1 % 1.3 % 6.3 % 0.9 % 1.1 % capitated hmo physician group based 2.0 % 1.2 % 4.2 % 37.2 % 5.0 % 3.3 % risk-sharing 2.5 % 1.6 % 41.3 % 59.9 % 12.9 % 7.8 % all other membership 93.4 % 100.0 % 95.9 % 48.2 % 2.9 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 81.2 % 87.8 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % december 31, 2004 capitated hmo hospital system based 3.1 % 2.1 % 10.2 % 3.6 % 1.5 % 1.8 % capitated hmo physician group based 2.5 % 1.7 % 1.1 % 39.3 % 5.2 % 3.5 % risk-sharing 3.0 % 2.1 % 55.2 % 50.4 % 12.0 % 7.4 % all other membership 91.4 % 100.0 % 94.1 % 33.5 % 6.7 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 81.3 % 87.3 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % capitation expense as a percentage of total medical expense was as follows for the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: 2005 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) medical expenses: capitated hmo expense $ 456,123 3.9 % $ 465,231 4.4 % $ 597,244 6.0 % other medical expense 11,195,347 96.1 % 10,204,416 95.6 % 9,282,177 94.0 % consolidated medical expense $ 11,651,470 100.0 % $ 10,669,647 100.0 % $ 9,879,421 100.0 % accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies, as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health plan employer data information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate hmos based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. 12 table of contents physicians participating in our hmo networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations, or jcaho. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating physicians includes verification of their medical licenses; review of their malpractice liability claims histories; review of their board certifications, if applicable; and review of any complaints, including member appeals and grievances. committees, composed of a peer group of physicians, review the applications of physicians being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our hmo plans from ncqa and the american accreditation healthcare commission/utilization review accreditation commission, or aahc/urac. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. accreditation specific to the utilization review process also is required in the state of georgia for licensure as an hmo or ppo. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa performs reviews of standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, and member rights and responsibilities. we continue to maintain accreditation in select markets through ncqa. aahc/urac performs reviews for utilization management standards and for health plan and health network standards in quality management, credentialing, rights and responsibilities, and network management. we continue to maintain urac accreditation in select markets and certain operations. humana has also pursued iso 9001:2000 certification over the past several years. iso is the international standards organization, which has developed an international commercial set of certifications as to quality and process, called iso 9001:2000. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our medicare, medicaid, and commercial products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2005, we employed approximately 1,700 sales representatives, who are each paid a salary and/or per member commission, and used approximately 62,900 licensed independent brokers and agents to market our medicare and medicaid products in the continental united states and puerto rico. we also employed approximately 500 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare and medicaid products by making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. during 2005, we expanded the number of ways we market our medicare products, including, among others, strategic alliances with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart, state farm &reg; , and usaa. the alliance with wal-mart includes stationing humana representatives in the wal-mart stores, sam club locations and neighborhood markets across the country providing an opportunity to enroll medicare eligible individuals in person. individuals become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer or group exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. we also offer commercial health insurance products to individuals. at december 31, 2005, we used approximately 51,300 licensed independent brokers and agents and approximately 700 licensed employees to sell our commercial products. many of our employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular 13 table of contents customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents on other bases. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. risk management through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determine the risk we are willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups must meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. small group laws in some states have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged based upon assessment of health conditions. underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, tricare, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos, including hmos and ppos owned by blue cross/blue shield plans. many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described on page 18 in item 1a. risk factors. government regulation government regulation of health care products and services is a changing area of law that varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. the passing of the medicare modernization act of 2003, or mma, represents the most sweeping changes to medicare since the bba. changes in applicable laws and regulations are continually being considered, and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. these regulatory revisions could affect our operations and financial results. also, it may become increasingly difficult to control medical costs if federal and state bodies continue to consider and enact significant and sometimes onerous managed care laws and regulations. federal regulation medicare the mma made many significant changes to the medicare fee-for-service and medicare advantage programs, as well as other changes to the commercial health insurance marketplace. most significantly, the mma created a voluntary prescription drug benefit, called part d benefit, for medicare beneficiaries beginning in 2006, established a new medicare advantage program to replace the medicare+choice program, and enacted tax-advantaged health savings accounts, or hsas, for non-medicare eligible individuals and groups. see the description of our medicare products beginning on page 4 for additional discussion. cms conducts audits of plans qualified under its medicare program at least biannually and may perform other reviews more frequently to determine compliance with federal regulations and contractual obligations. these audits include review of the plans administration and management, including management information and data collection systems, fiscal stability, utilization management and physician incentive arrangements, health services delivery, quality assurance, marketing, enrollment and disenrollment activity, claims processing, and complaint systems. 14 table of contents cms regulations require submission of quarterly and annual financial statements. in addition, cms requires certain disclosures to cms and to medicare beneficiaries concerning operations of a health plan contracted under the medicare program. cms rules require disclosure to members upon request of information concerning financial arrangements and incentive plans between the plan and physicians in the plan networks. these rules also require certain levels of stop loss coverage to protect contracted physicians against major losses relating to patient care, depending on the amount of financial risk they assume. the reporting of certain health care data contained in hedis is another important cms disclosure requirement. fraud and abuse laws enforcement of health care fraud and abuse laws has become a top priority for the nation law enforcement entities. the funding of such law enforcement efforts has increased dramatically in the past few years and is expected to continue. the focus of these efforts has been directed at participants in federal government health care programs such as medicare, medicaid, and the fehbp. we participate extensively in these programs and have continued our stringent regulatory compliance efforts for these programs. the programs are subject to very technical rules. when combined with law enforcement intolerance for any level of noncompliance, these rules mean that compliance efforts in this area continue to be challenging. federal hmo act of our nine licensed and active hmo subsidiaries as of february 1, 2006, eight are qualified under the federal health maintenance organization act of 1973, as amended. to obtain federal qualification, an hmo must meet certain requirements, including conformance with benefit, rating, and financial reporting standards. federal qualification allows us to participate in the fehbp program. in certain markets, and for certain products, we operate hmos that are not federally qualified because this provides greater flexibility with respect to product design and pricing than is possible for federally qualified hmos. privacy regulations the use of individually identifiable data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. violations of these rules could subject us to significant penalties. state and local regulation we are also subject to substantial regulation by the states in which we do business. we regularly are audited and subject to various enforcement actions by state departments of insurance. these departments enforce laws relating to all aspects of our operations, including benefit offerings, marketing, claim payments and premium setting, especially with regard to our small group business. although any of the pending government actions could result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, and other sanctions against us, including exclusion from participation in government programs, we do not believe the results of any of these actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our medicaid products are regulated by the applicable state agency in the state in which we sell a medicaid product and by the puerto rico health insurance administration, in conformance with federal approval of the applicable state plan, and are subject to periodic reviews by these agencies. the reviews are similar in nature to those performed by cms. 15 table of contents laws in each of the states (including puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations, including the scope of benefits, rate formulas, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance, and our hmos are audited for compliance with health services standards by respective state departments of health. most states laws require such audits to be performed at least once every three years. our licensed subsidiaries are subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. certain of our subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, or other cash transfers to humana inc., our parent company, and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. for additional information regarding our regulated subsidiaries statutory capital requirements see page 22 in item 1a. risk factors. audits and investigations we are subject to various governmental audits, investigations, and enforcement actions as more fully described on page 24 in item 1a. risk factors. pending federal and state legislation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives continue at both the federal and state levels to affect aspects of the nation health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. other captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. in an effort to minimize credit risk, we insure our risks with a number of insurance companies having a long history of strong financial ratings. since january 1, 2003, we have reduced the amount of coverage purchased from third-party insurance carriers and increased the amount of risk we retain based on the financial strength and liquidity of our captive insurance subsidiary. we provide a detail of the significant assets and liabilities as well as a rollforward of reserve activity related to our captive insurance subsidiary in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. 16 table of contents centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and both of our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, personnel, development, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, and customer service. employees as of december 31, 2005, we had approximately 18,700 employees, including 19 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. item 1a. risk factors this document includes both historical and forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements are made within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. we intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. we have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events, trends and uncertainties. these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, among other things, the information discussed below. in making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update each factor in future filings or communications regarding our business or results. our business is highly complicated, regulated and competitive with many different factors affecting results. if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, or if our estimates of medical claim reserves based upon our estimates of future medical claims are inadequate, our profitability could decline. we use a significant portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments, allocations of some centralized expenses and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our medical cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future medical claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record medical claims reserves for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to medical claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. however, many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services, including prescription drugs; increased cost of such services; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; membership in markets lacking adequate provider networks; 17 table of contents changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; termination of capitation arrangements resulting in the transfer of membership to fee-for-service arrangements; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; possible changes in our pharmacy rebate program with drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricane katrina); the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient medical claim reserves may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, our membership and profitability could decline. we are in a highly competitive industry. many of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program and in consumer-choice health plans, such as high deductible health plans with hsas. we believe that barriers to entry in many markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. the commercial pricing environment, particularly in the 2 to 300 member groups, is extremely competitive. several of our competitors, including public and not-for-profit companies, are pricing aggressively to gain market share. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationship with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract, including our tricare contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, our business could be materially adversely affected. our future performance depends in large part upon our management team ability to execute our strategy to position the company for the future. this strategy includes opportunities created by the mma. the mma offers new opportunities in our medicare programs, including our hmo, ppo, and pffs medicare advantage 18 table of contents products, as well as our pdp products. we have made substantial additional investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these expanded programs. we have doubled the size of our medicare geographic reach since the enactment of the mma through expanded medicare product offerings. we are offering both the stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage (pdp) and medicare advantage health plan with prescription drug coverage (ma-pd) in addition to our other product offerings. our medicare presence as of february 1, 2006, included more than 700,000 medicare advantage members and approximately 1.7 million pdp members in 12 hmo markets, 33 local ppo markets, and 35 states in which we have a private fee-for-service offering. enrollment in the new part d prescription drug plans began on november 15, 2005, and the plans became effective january 1, 2006. we have been approved to offer the medicare prescription drug plan in 46 states and the district of columbia. the timing of our new membership enrollment in our medicare advantage and pdp products is an important factor in meeting our business objectives. the pattern of quarterly earnings for 2006 is subject to certain assumptions including the timing of when a member enrolls in a plan, the plan type the member selects, and the speed with which the individual members meet their deductibles and cost-sharing provisions. we have also made substantial investments in the service personnel and technology necessary to administer the growing medicare business. service issues intensified due to an enormous number of individuals being eligible in the new program on january 1. we have to implement various initiatives such as hiring additional service representatives to address the service issues. the growth of our medicare business is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare business in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in the medicare business, which are described elsewhere in this document. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial segment business, with emphasis on our aso and individual products, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including our smart, consumer-choice products such as hsas as well as the adoption of new technologies and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business could be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have been taking steps to reduce the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses 19 table of contents was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. we have recently changed vendors in our pharmacy benefits program. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. our business plans also include becoming a quality e-business organization by enhancing interactions with customers, brokers, agents, and other stakeholders through web-enabling technology. our strategy includes sales and distribution of health benefit products through the internet, and implementation of advanced self-service capabilities, for internal and external stakeholders. there can be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our expanding operations, integrating new systems, protecting our proprietary information, and improving service levels will not be delayed or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data may result in a material adverse effect on our financial positions, results of operations and cash flows. we are involved in various legal actions, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages. we are a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers alleged malpractice; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; 20 table of contents claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; and claims relating to customer audits and contract performance. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, rackateer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. additionally, the cost of business insurance coverage has increased significantly. as a result, we have increased the amount of risk that we self-insure, particularly with respect to matters incidental to our business. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. a description of material legal actions in which we are currently involved is included under legal proceedings in note 14 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these suits with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in the defense of these matters. therefore, these legal actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. as a government contractor, we are exposed to additional risks that could adversely affect our business or our willingness to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, tricare, and medicaid programs. our government segment accounted for approximately 53% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2005 and we expect the government segment to account for a greater percentage of our total premiums and aso fees in 2006. these programs involve various risks, including: at december 31, 2005, under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 295,400 members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 20% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2005. the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or administrative action, including reductions in payments to us or increases in benefits to members without corresponding increases in payments, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; at december 31, 2005, our tricare business, which accounted for approximately 17% of our total premiums and aso fees during the year ended december 31, 2005, primarily consisted of the south region contract. the south region contract is a five-year contract, subject to annual renewals at the government option, with the the third option period scheduled to begin april 1, 2006, that covers approximately 2.9 million beneficiaries. the loss of our current tricare contract would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. this contract contains provisions to negotiate a target health care cost amount annually with the federal government. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. as such, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount could have a material adverse effect on our business. these changes may include, for example, an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military presence around the world. in the event government reimbursements were to decline from projected amounts, our failure to reduce the health care costs associated with these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business; at december 31, 2005, under our contracts with the puerto rico health insurance administration, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 403,100 medicaid members in puerto rico. these contracts accounted for approximately 3% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended 21 table of contents december 31, 2005. we currently have medicaid contracts with the puerto rico health insurance administration that expire on june 30, 2006. we are preparing to bid on the new contracts that will be effective july 2006 although a request for such proposal has not yet been issued by the puerto rico health insurance administration. the loss of these contracts or significant changes in the puerto rico medicaid program as a result of legislative or administrative action, including reductions in payments to us or increases in benefits to members without corresponding increases in payments, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; the possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act; cms has implemented a risk adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare health plans according to health severity. a risk adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. under the new risk adjustment methodology, all medicare health plans must collect, capture and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from inpatient and ambulatory treatment settings to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk adjusted premium payment to medicare health plans. cms is transitioning to the risk adjustment model for medicare advantage plans as follows: 50% in 2005, 75% in 2006 and 100% in 2007. the pdp payment methodology is based 100% on the risk adjustment model beginning in 2006; commensurate with phase-in of the new risk-adjustment methodology, payments to medicare advantage plans have been increased by a budget neutrality factor. the budget neutrality factor was implemented to prevent overall health plan payments from being reduced during the transition to the new risk-adjustment payment model. the payment adjustments for budget neutrality were first developed in 2002 and began to be used with the 2003 payments. the budget neutrality adjustment will begin phasing out in 2007 and will be fully eliminated by 2011. this does not mean, however, that the aggregate per-member payments to medicare plans will be reduced. as plans enroll less healthy beneficiaries, the need for the budget neutrality adjustment declines as the underlying risk adjusted medicare rates paid to plans increase to account for their enrollees greater healthcare needs. as a result of the cms payment methodology described above, the amount and timing of our cms monthly premium payments per member may change materially, either favorably or unfavorably; future changes to these government programs which may affect our ability or willingness to participate in these programs; higher comparative medical costs; government regulatory and reporting requirements; and higher marketing and advertising costs per member as a result of marketing to individuals as opposed to groups. our industry is currently subject to substantial government regulation, which, along with possible increased governmental regulation or legislative reform, increases our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our profitability. the health care industry in general, and health insurance, particularly hmos and ppos are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation. our licensed subsidiaries are subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. 22 table of contents certain of our subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, or other cash transfers to humana inc., our parent company, and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. as of december 31, 2005, we maintained aggregate statutory capital and surplus of $1,203.2 million in our state regulated subsidiaries. each of these subsidiaries was in compliance with applicable statutory requirements which aggregated $722.2 million. although the minimum required levels of equity are largely based on premium volume, product mix, and the quality of assets held, minimum requirements can vary significantly at the state level. given our anticipated premium growth in 2006 resulting from the expansion of our medicare products, capital requirements will increase. we expect to fund these increased requirements with capital contributions from humana inc., our parent company, in the range of $450 million to $650 million in 2006. most states rely on risk-based capital requirements, or rbc, to define the required levels of equity. rbc is a model developed by the national association of insurance commissioners to monitor an entity solvency. this calculation indicates recommended minimum levels of required capital and surplus and signals regulatory measures should actual surplus fall below these recommended levels. if rbc were adopted by all states and puerto rico at december 31, 2005, we would be required to fund $14.7 million in one of our puerto rico subsidiaries to meet all requirements. after this funding, we would have $378.2 million of aggregate capital and surplus above any of the levels that require corrective action under rbc. the use of individually identifiable data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules will subject us to significant penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa could also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates. a business associate is a person or entity, other than a member of the work force, who on behalf of a covered entity performs, or assists in the performance of a function or activity involving the use or disclosure of individually identifiable health information, or provides legal, accounting, consulting, data aggregation, management, administrative, accreditation, or financial services. another area receiving increased focus is the time in which various laws require the payment of health care claims. many states already have legislation in place covering payment of claims within a specific number of days. however, due to provider groups advocating for laws or regulations establishing even stricter standards, procedures and penalties, we expect additional regulatory scrutiny and supplemental legislation with respect to claims payment practices. the provider-sponsored bills are characterized by stiff penalties for late payment, including high interest rates payable to providers and costly fines levied by state insurance departments and attorneys general. this legislation and possible future regulation and oversight could expose us to additional liability and penalties. we are implementing a mail order pharmacy business that subjects us to extensive federal, state and local regulation. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. 23 table of contents we are also subject to various governmental audits and investigations. these can include audits and investigations by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, the defense contract audit agency, and state departments of insurance and departments of health. several state attorneys general and departments of insurance are currently investigating the practices of insurance brokers, including those of certain of the companies in the health care industry. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, or the imposition of fines, penalties and other sanctions. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. other areas subject to substantial regulation include: licensing requirements; approval of policy language and benefits; mandated benefits and processes; approval of entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market; premium rates; and periodic examinations by state and federal agencies. in recent years, significant federal and state legislation affecting our business has been enacted. state and federal governmental authorities are continually considering changes to laws and regulations applicable to us and are currently considering regulations relating to: health insurance access and affordability; e-connectivity; disclosure of provider fee schedules and other data about payments to providers, sometimes called transparency; disclosure of provider quality information; and formation of regional/national association health plans for small employers. all of these proposals could apply to us and could result in new regulations that increase the cost of our operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals or licenses or that legislative or regulatory change will not have a material adverse effect on our business. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals could adversely affect entry into new markets, our revenues or the number of our members, increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market as forecasted. our ability to manage administrative costs could hamper profitability. the level of our administrative expenses impacts our profitability. while we attempt to manage effectively such expenses, increases in staff-related expenses, investment in new products, including our opportunities in the medicare programs, greater emphasis on small group and individual health insurance products, acquisitions, and implementation of regulatory requirements, among others, may occur from time to time. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contain our administrative expenses in line with our membership that may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 24 table of contents any failure by us to manage acquisitions, and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business could be adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. these providers may share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care physicians for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month fee under which physicians are paid an amount to provide all required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. if we fail to manage prescription drug programs successfully, our financial results could suffer. in general, prescription drug costs have been rapidly rising over the past few years. these increases are due to the introduction of new drugs costing significantly more than existing drugs, direct to consumer advertising by the pharmaceutical industry that creates consumer demand for particular brand-name drugs, and members seeking medications to address lifestyle changes. in order to control prescription drug costs, we have 25 table of contents implemented multi-tiered copayment benefit designs for prescription drugs, including our four-tiered copayment benefit design, rx4 and an rx allowance program structured to account for those drugs that treat more pervasive conditions and are suggested to be more effective by empirical data. we cannot assure that these efforts will be successful in controlling costs. failure to control these costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries is restricted. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. these subsidiaries generally are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from our parent company. to fund our expanding business opportunities, including the enhanced medicare business, we anticipate additional required capital ranging from $450 million to $650 million in 2006. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts, or, in some states, any amount. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our operations or financial position may be adversely affected. ratings are an important factor in our competitive position. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. downgrades in our ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in investment income from our fixed income portfolio which is partially offset by both our debt position and the short-term duration of the fixed income investment portfolio. we evaluated the impact on our investment income and debt expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200 and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our fixed income portfolio and our debt position as of december 31, 2005 and 2004. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may effect interest income, including, among others, unexpected changes of cash flow into and out of the portfolio, shifts in the asset mix between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points twice, have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points once and have changed by less than 100 basis points seven times. libor was 4.54% at december 31, 2005. increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in thousands) as of december 31, 2005 fixed income portfolio $ (54,167 ) $ (35,833 ) $ (17,331 ) $ 17,375 $ 34,661 $ 52,924 debt 33,842 22,561 11,281 (11,281 ) (22,561 ) (33,842 ) total $ (20,325 ) $ (13,272 ) $ (6,050 ) $ 6,094 $ 12,100 $ 19,082 as of december 31, 2004 fixed income portfolio $ (20,530 ) $ (18,258 ) $ (8,974 ) $ 9,212 $ 18,439 $ 27,299 debt 14,200 14,200 7,100 (7,100 ) (14,200 ) (21,300 ) total $ (6,330 ) $ (4,058 ) $ (1,874 ) $ 2,112 $ 4,239 $ 5,999 58 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors for a description of a number of factors that could adversely affect our results or business. business segments we manage our business with two segments: government and commercial. the government segment consists of members enrolled in government-sponsored programs, and includes three lines of business: medicare, tricare, and medicaid. the commercial segment consists of members enrolled in products marketed to employer groups and individuals, and includes two lines of business: medical (fully and self insured) and specialty. we identified our segments in accordance with the aggregation provisions of statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 131, disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information , or sfas 131, which is consistent with information used by our chief executive officer in managing our business. the segment information aggregates products with similar economic characteristics. these characteristics include the nature of customer groups and pricing, benefits and underwriting requirements. the results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. we allocate all selling, general and administrative expenses, investment and other income, interest expense, and goodwill, but no other assets or liabilities, to our segments. members served by our two segments often utilize the same medical provider networks, enabling us to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. our segments also share overhead costs and assets. as a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. we believe our customer, membership, revenue, and pretax income diversification across segments and products allows us to increase our chances of success. 3 table of contents our products as more fully described in the products discussion that follows, we provide health insurance benefits under health maintenance organization, or hmo, private fee-for-service, or pffs, and preferred provider organization, or ppo, plans. the following table presents our segment membership at december 31, 2006, and premiums and administrative services only, or aso, fees by product for the year ended december 31, 2006: medical membership specialty membership premiums aso fees total premiums and aso fees percent of total premiums and aso fees (dollars in thousands) government: medicare advantage: hmo 457,900 $ 4,869,044 $ $ 4,869,044 23.1 % pffs 473,000 3,136,200 3,136,200 14.9 % ppo 71,700 493,820 493,820 2.3 % total medicare advantage 1,002,600 8,499,064 8,499,064 40.3 % medicare stand-alone pdp 3,536,600 3,050,304 3,050,304 14.5 % total medicare 4,539,200 11,549,368 11,549,368 54.8 % medicaid 390,700 520,520 520,520 2.5 % medicaid aso 178,400 1,423 1,423 % total medicaid 569,100 520,520 1,423 521,943 2.5 % tricare 1,716,400 2,543,930 2,543,930 12.1 % tricare aso 1,163,600 48,019 48,019 0.2 % total tricare 2,880,000 2,543,930 48,019 2,591,949 12.3 % total government 7,988,300 14,613,818 49,442 14,663,260 69.6 % commercial: fully insured: ppo 1,246,500 3,684,442 3,684,442 17.4 % hmo 507,700 2,019,936 2,019,936 9.6 % total fully insured 1,754,200 5,704,378 5,704,378 27.0 % aso 1,529,600 291,769 291,769 1.4 % specialty 1,902,800 410,986 410,986 2.0 % total commercial 3,283,800 1,902,800 6,115,364 291,769 6,407,133 30.4 % total 11,272,100 1,902,800 $ 20,729,182 $ 341,211 $ 21,070,393 100.0 % our products marketed to government segment members and beneficiaries medicare advantage products medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. 4 table of contents we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits including wellness programs to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and pffs plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. we refer to beneficiaries enrolled in these plans collectively as medicare advantage or ma-pd members. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of traditional medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data mining techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, disease management programs, wellness and prevention programs, and a reduced monthly part b premium. since 2006, medicare beneficiaries have had more health plan options, including a prescription drug benefit option and greater access to a ppo offering with the roll-out of regional ppo plans. prior to 2006, ppo plans were offered on a local basis only. most medicare advantage plans must offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section are also applicable to our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers, or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations, hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in many cases, these beneficiaries also may be required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan, in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. our medicare pffs plans have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at reimbursement rates equivalent to traditional medicare payment rates. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms risk adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits). cms has transitioned to this risk-based reimbursement model while the old reimbursement model based on demographic data including gender, age, and disability status was phased out. in 2006, the portion of risk adjusted payment was increased to 75%, from 50% in 2005. the phase-in of risk adjusted payment has increased to 100% in 2007. under the risk adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must capture, collect, and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. commensurate with phase-in of the risk-adjustment methodology, payments to medicare advantage plans were increased by a budget neutrality factor. the budget neutrality factor was implemented to prevent overall health plan payments from being reduced during the transition from the previous reimbursement model, based upon average original medicare fee-for-service spending, to the risk-adjustment payment model. the payment adjustments for budget neutrality were first developed in 2002 and first used with the 2003 payments. the budget neutrality adjustment began phasing out in 2007 and will be fully eliminated by 2011. this does not mean, however, that the aggregate per-member payments to medicare plans will be reduced. as plans enroll less healthy beneficiaries, the need for the budget neutrality adjustment declines as the underlying risk adjusted medicare rates paid to plans increase to account for their enrollees greater healthcare needs. as a result of changes in the cms payment processes, including the phasing in of the risk adjustment methodology and the phasing out of the budget neutrality adjustment described previously, our cms payments per member may change materially, either favorably or unfavorably. 5 table of contents at december 31, 2006, we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 1,002,600 ma-pd members for which we received premium revenues of approximately $8.5 billion, or 40.3% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2006. under our medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 324,600 members. these contracts accounted for premium revenues of approximately $3.5 billion, which represented approximately 41.2% of our medicare advantage premium revenues, or 16.6% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2006. our hmo, pffs, and ppo products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies humana of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the contract year, or humana notifies cms of its decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the contract year. medicare stand-alone prescription drug products on january 1, 2006, we began offering stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our three plan choices between november 15 and december 31 for coverage that begins january 1. the enrollment period was extended to may 31 during 2006 because it was the first year of the program. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described beginning on page 55. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies humana of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the contract year, or humana notifies cms of its decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the contract year. medicare presence we now have a national presence, offering our medicare pffs and stand-alone pdp products in all 50 states. the following table sets forth the number of markets in which we sold our medicare advantage and stand-alone pdp products as of january 1, 2007, as compared with january 1, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 pffs (states) 50 35 35 hmo (localities) 12 12 12 regional ppo (states) 23 23 local ppo (localities) 26 33 30 stand-alone pdp (states) 50 46 in addition, we market our hmo and pffs products in puerto rico as well as our stand-alone pdp products in the district of columbia and puerto rico. medicaid product medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to facilitate the delivery of health care services primarily to low-income residents. each electing state develops, through a state specific regulatory agency, a medicaid managed care initiative that must be approved by cms. cms requires that medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. states currently either use a formal proposal process in which they review many bidders before selecting one or award individual contracts to qualified bidders who apply for entry to the program. in either case, the contractual relationship with a state generally is for a one-year period. under these contracts, we receive a fixed monthly payment from a government agency for which we are required to provide health insurance coverage to 6 table of contents enrolled members. due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a managed care product in their medicaid programs. our medicaid business, which accounted for approximately 2.5% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2006, consisted of contracts in puerto rico and florida, with the puerto rico contract representing 75.2% of total medicaid premiums and aso fees. tricare tricare provides health insurance coverage to the dependents of active duty military personnel and to retired military personnel and their dependents. currently, three health benefit options are available to tricare beneficiaries. in addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in an hmo-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a ppo. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the united states department of defense. our current tricare south region contract, which we were awarded in 2003, covers approximately 2.9 million eligible beneficiaries as of december 31, 2006 in florida, georgia, south carolina, mississippi, alabama, tennessee, louisiana, arkansas, texas and oklahoma. the south region is one of the three regions in the united states as defined by the department of defense. of these eligible beneficiaries, 1.2 million were tricare aso members representing active duty beneficiaries, seniors over the age of 65 and beneficiaries in puerto rico for which the department of defense retains all of the risk of financing the cost of their health benefit. the tricare south region contract is for a five-year period subject to annual renewals at the federal government option, with the fourth option period scheduled to begin april 1, 2007. we have subcontracted with third parties to provide selected administration and specialty services under the contract. the tricare south region contract contains provisions that require us to negotiate a target health care cost amount annually with the federal government. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. as such, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount could have a material adverse effect on our business. these changes may include, for example, an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. in the event government reimbursements were to decline from projected amounts, our failure to reduce the health care costs associated with these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the year ended december 31, 2006, tricare premium revenues were approximately $2.5 billion, or 12.1% of our total premiums and aso fees, and tricare aso fees totaled $48.0 million, or 0.2% of our total premiums and aso fees. our products marketed to commercial segment employers and members consumer-choice products over the last several years, we have developed and offered various commercial products designed to provide options and choices to employers that are annually facing substantial premium increases driven by double-digit medical cost inflation. these consumer-choice products, which can be offered on either a fully insured or aso basis, provided coverage to approximately 437,900 members at december 31, 2006, representing approximately 13.3% of our total commercial medical membership as detailed below. consumer-choice membership other commercial membership commercial medical membership fully insured 231,900 1,522,300 1,754,200 aso 206,000 1,323,600 1,529,600 total commercial medical 437,900 2,845,900 3,283,800 7 table of contents these products are often offered to employer groups as bundles , where the subscribers are offered various hmo and ppo options, with various employer contribution strategies as determined by the employer. paramount to our consumer-choice product strategy, we have developed a group of innovative consumer products, styled as smart products, that we believe will be a long-term solution for employers. we believe this new generation of products provides more (1) choices for the individual consumer, (2) transparency of provider costs, and (3) benefit designs that engage consumers in the costs and effectiveness of health care choices. innovative tools and technology are available to assist consumers with these decisions, including the trade-offs between higher premiums and point-of-service costs at the time consumers choose their plans, and to suggest ways in which the consumers can maximize their individual benefits at the point they use their plans. we believe that when consumers can make informed choices about the cost and effectiveness of their health care, a sustainable long term solution for employers can be realized. smart products, which accounted for approximately 63% of enrollment in all of our consumer-choice plans as of december 31, 2006, are only sold to employers who use humana as their sole health insurance carrier. some employers have selected other types of consumer-choice products, such as, (1) a product with a high deductible, (2) a catastrophic coverage plan, or (3) ones that offer a spending account option in conjunction with more traditional medical coverage or as a stand alone plan. unlike our smart products, these products, while valuable in helping employers deal with near-term cost increases by shifting costs to employees, are not considered by us to be long-term comprehensive solutions to the employers cost dilemma, although we view them as an important interim step. hmo our commercial hmo products provide prepaid health insurance coverage to our members through a network of independent primary care physicians, specialty physicians, and other health care providers who contract with the hmo to furnish such services. primary care physicians generally include internists, family practitioners, and pediatricians. generally, the member primary care physician must approve access to certain specialty physicians and other health care providers. these other health care providers include, among others, hospitals, nursing homes, home health agencies, pharmacies, mental health and substance abuse centers, diagnostic centers, optometrists, outpatient surgery centers, dentists, urgent care centers, and durable medical equipment suppliers. because the primary care physician generally must approve access to many of these other health care providers, the hmo product is considered the most restrictive form of a health benefit plan. an hmo member, typically through the member employer, pays a monthly fee, which generally covers, together with some copayments, health care services received from, or approved by, the member primary care physician. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. for the year ended december 31, 2006, commercial hmo premium revenues totaled approximately $2.0 billion, or 9.6% of our total premiums and aso fees. ppo our commercial ppo products, which are marketed primarily to employer groups and individuals, include some types of wellness and utilization management programs. however, they typically include more cost-sharing with the member, through copayments and annual deductibles. ppos also are similar to traditional health insurance because they provide a member with more freedom to choose a physician or other health care provider. in a ppo, the member is encouraged, through financial incentives, to use participating health care providers, which have contracted with the ppo to provide services at favorable rates. in the event a member chooses not to use a participating health care provider, the member may be required to pay a greater portion of the provider fees. 8 table of contents as part of our ppo products, we offer humanaone, a major medical product marketed directly to individuals. we offer this product in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. this individual product includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. for the year ended december 31, 2006, employer and individual commercial ppo premium revenues totaled approximately $3.7 billion, or 17.4% of our total premiums and aso fees. aso in addition to fully insured consumer-choice, hmo and ppo products, we also offer aso products to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully insured ppo, hmo or consumer-choice products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, most aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. for the year ended december 31, 2006, commercial aso fees totaled $291.8 million, or 1.4% of our total premiums and aso fees. specialty products we additionally offer various specialty products including dental, life, and short-term disability. at december 31, 2006, we had approximately 1.9 million specialty members, including 1.5 million dental members. for the year ended december 31, 2006, specialty product premium revenues were approximately $411.0 million, or 2.0% of our total premiums and aso fees. 9 table of contents the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2006, by market and product: government commercial medicare advantage medicare stand-alone pdp medicaid tricare ppo hmo aso total percent of total (in thousands) florida 324.6 194.3 46.0 144.6 152.4 81.4 943.3 8.4 % texas 56.0 265.5 265.0 60.5 189.4 836.4 7.4 % kentucky 16.5 72.5 181.0 30.4 484.3 784.7 7.0 % illinois 45.1 94.2 129.7 73.3 146.4 488.7 4.3 % ohio 30.6 124.9 64.7 60.4 187.5 468.1 4.2 % puerto rico 23.7 344.7 43.7 17.8 429.9 3.8 % wisconsin 31.5 58.7 70.4 35.6 199.6 395.8 3.5 % missouri/kansas 48.8 185.2 33.8 18.9 11.1 297.8 2.6 % california 269.6 1.5 271.1 2.4 % louisiana 51.7 58.4 34.4 21.1 102.4 268.0 2.4 % indiana 17.4 111.3 53.0 0.6 50.1 232.4 2.1 % tennessee 16.7 103.3 30.1 35.9 186.0 1.7 % georgia 33.2 91.2 23.6 27.1 1.7 176.8 1.6 % michigan 14.8 107.0 50.0 1.0 172.8 1.5 % north carolina 41.5 124.5 4.1 170.1 1.5 % arizona 29.4 50.2 46.6 9.6 27.4 163.2 1.4 % new york 139.1 139.1 1.2 % pennsylvania 10.6 120.1 3.6 134.3 1.2 % virginia 35.0 98.4 0.3 133.7 1.2 % colorado 9.8 41.7 50.9 2.6 105.0 0.9 % mississippi 11.4 82.9 8.4 0.8 103.5 0.9 % alabama 7.4 94.1 0.1 101.6 0.9 % minnesota 26.9 73.8 0.2 100.9 0.9 % puerto rico aso 178.4 7.8 186.2 1.7 % tricare 1,716.4 1,716.4 15.2 % tricare aso 1,163.6 1,163.6 10.3 % others 120.0 975.7 7.0 1,102.7 9.8 % totals 1,002.6 3,536.6 569.1 2,880.0 1,246.5 507.7 1,529.6 11,272.1 100.0 % provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care physicians, specialist physicians, dentists and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. we have approximately 809,000 contracts with health care providers participating in our networks, which consist of approximately 539,800 physicians, 5,300 hospitals, and 263,900 ancillary providers and dentists. these ancillary services and facilities include ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems and enrolling members into various disease management programs. the 10 table of contents focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care physician who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services, by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. our hospitalist programs use specially-trained physicians to effectively manage the entire range of an hmo member medical care during a hospital admission and to effectively coordinate the member discharge and post-discharge care. we have available a variety of disease management programs related to specific medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index or other nationally recognized inflation indexes. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of their intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. capitation for 2.4% of our december 31, 2006 medical membership, we contract with hospitals and physicians to accept financial risk for a defined set of hmo membership. in transferring this risk, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to coordinate substantially all of the medical care for their capitated hmo membership, including some health benefit administrative functions and claims processing. for these capitated hmo arrangements, we generally agree to reimbursement rates that target a medical expense ratio, or mer, ranging from 82% to 89%. mer measures underwriting profitability and is computed by taking total medical expenses as a percentage of premium revenues. providers participating in hospital-based capitated hmo arrangements generally receive a monthly payment for all of the services within their system for their hmo membership. providers participating in physician-based capitated hmo arrangements generally have subcontracted directly with hospitals and specialist physicians, and are responsible for reimbursing such hospitals and physicians for services rendered to their hmo membership. for another 4.8% of our december 31, 2006 medical membership, we contract with physicians under risk-sharing arrangements whereby physicians have assumed some level of risk for all or a portion of the medical costs of their hmo membership. although these arrangements do include capitation payments for services rendered, we process substantially all of the claims under these arrangements. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. 11 table of contents medical membership under these various arrangements was as follows at december 31, 2006 and 2005: government segment commercial segment total medical medicare advantage medicare stand-alone pdp tricare tricare aso medicaid total segment fully insured aso total segment medical membership: december 31, 2006 capitated hmo hospital system based 29,800 29,800 33,600 33,600 63,400 capitated hmo physician group based 23,900 148,300 172,200 29,900 29,900 202,100 risk-sharing 279,300 239,700 519,000 25,900 25,900 544,900 other 669,600 3,536,600 1,716,400 1,163,600 181,100 7,267,300 1,664,800 1,529,600 3,194,400 10,461,700 total 1,002,600 3,536,600 1,716,400 1,163,600 569,100 7,988,300 1,754,200 1,529,600 3,283,800 11,272,100 december 31, 2005 capitated hmo hospital system based 35,200 35,200 42,600 42,600 77,800 capitated hmo physician group based 23,300 170,400 193,700 39,500 39,500 233,200 risk-sharing 230,200 274,200 504,400 49,700 49,700 554,100 other 269,100 1,750,900 1,138,200 13,300 3,171,500 1,868,000 1,171,000 3,039,000 6,210,500 total 557,800 1,750,900 1,138,200 457,900 3,904,800 1,999,800 1,171,000 3,170,800 7,075,600 medical membership distribution: december 31, 2006 capitated hmo hospital system based 3.0 % 0.4 % 1.9 % 1.0 % 0.6 % capitated hmo physician group based 2.4 % 26.1 % 2.2 % 1.7 % 0.9 % 1.8 % risk-sharing 27.9 % 42.1 % 6.4 % 1.5 % 0.8 % 4.8 % all other membership 66.7 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 31.8 % 91.0 % 94.9 % 100.0 % 97.3 % 92.8 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % december 31, 2005 capitated hmo hospital system based 6.3 % 0.9 % 2.1 % 1.3 % 1.1 % capitated hmo physician group based 4.2 % 37.2 % 5.0 % 2.0 % 1.2 % 3.3 % risk-sharing 41.3 % 59.9 % 12.9 % 2.5 % 1.6 % 7.8 % all other membership 48.2 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 2.9 % 81.2 % 93.4 % 100.0 % 95.9 % 87.8 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % capitation expense as a percentage of total medical expense was as follows for the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in thousands) medical expenses: capitated hmo expense $ 382,584 2.2 % $ 456,123 3.9 % $ 465,231 4.4 % other medical expense 17,038,620 97.8 % 11,195,347 96.1 % 10,204,416 95.6 % consolidated medical expense $ 17,421,204 100.0 % $ 11,651,470 100.0 % $ 10,669,647 100.0 % 12 table of contents accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies, as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health plan employer data information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate hmos based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. physicians participating in our hmo networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations, or jcaho. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating physicians includes verification of their medical licenses; review of their malpractice liability claims histories; review of their board certifications, if applicable; and review of applicable quality information. committees, composed of a peer group of physicians, review the applications of physicians being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our hmo plans from ncqa and the american accreditation healthcare commission/utilization review accreditation commission, or aahc/urac. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. accreditation specific to the utilization review process also is required in the state of georgia for licensure as an hmo or ppo. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa performs reviews of standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in all of our commercial hmo markets except puerto rico and in select ppo markets. aahc/urac performs reviews for utilization management standards and for health plan and health network standards in quality management, credentialing, rights and responsibilities, and network management. we continue to maintain urac accreditation in select markets and certain operations. humana has also pursued iso 9001:2000 certification over the past several years. iso is the international standards organization, which has developed an international commercial set of certifications as to quality and process, called iso 9001:2000. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our medicare, medicaid, and commercial products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2006, we employed approximately 1,700 sales representatives, who are each paid a salary and per member commission to market our medicare and medicaid products in the united states and puerto rico. we employed approximately 600 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare and medicaid products by making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we also market our medicare products via a strategic alliance with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart. this alliance includes stationing humana representatives in certain wal-mart stores, sam club locations and neighborhood markets across the country providing an opportunity to enroll medicare eligible individuals in person. in addition, we market our medicare products through licensed independent brokers and agents including strategic alliances with state farm &reg; and usaa. we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, including bonuses based on sales volume. 13 table of contents individuals become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer or group exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. we also offer commercial health insurance products directly to individuals. at december 31, 2006, we used licensed independent brokers and agents and approximately 700 licensed employees to sell our commercial products. many of our employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. risk management through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determine the risk we are willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups must meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. small group laws in some states have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged based upon assessment of health conditions. underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, tricare, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos, including hmos and ppos owned by blue cross/blue shield plans. many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described on page 17 in item 1a. risk factors. government regulation federal regulation government regulation of health care products and services is a changing area of law that varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. the passing of the medicare modernization act of 2003, or mma, represents the most sweeping changes to medicare since the bba. changes in applicable laws and regulations are continually being considered, and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. these regulatory revisions could affect our operations and financial results. also, it may become increasingly difficult to control medical costs if federal and state bodies continue to consider and enact significant and sometimes onerous managed care laws and regulations. 14 table of contents state and local regulation we are also subject to substantial regulation by the states in which we do business. we regularly are audited and subject to various enforcement actions by state departments of insurance. these departments enforce laws relating to all aspects of our operations, including benefit offerings, marketing, claim payments, subsidiary capital requirements, and premium setting, especially with regard to our small group business. although any of the pending government actions could result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, and other sanctions against us, including exclusion from participation in government programs, we do not believe the results of any of these actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. pending federal and state legislation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives continue at both the federal and state levels to affect aspects of the nation health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for a complete description of all of the current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see item 1a. risk factors on page 22. other captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. in an effort to minimize credit risk, we insure our risks with a number of insurance companies having a long history of strong financial ratings. over the past few years, we have reduced the amount of coverage purchased from third-party insurance carriers and increased the amount of risk we retain based on the financial strength and liquidity of our captive insurance subsidiary. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and both of our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, and customer service. employees as of december 31, 2006, we had approximately 22,300 employees, including 31 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors this document includes both historical and forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements are made within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. we intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. we have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events, trends and uncertainties. these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, among other things, the information discussed below. in making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update each factor in future filings or communications regarding our business or results. our business is highly complicated, regulated and competitive with many different factors affecting results. if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, or if our estimates of medical claim reserves based upon our estimates of future medical claims are inadequate, our profitability could decline. we use a significant portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments, and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our medical cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future medical claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record medical claims reserves for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to medical claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. however, many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services, including prescription drugs; increased cost of such services; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; membership in markets lacking adequate provider networks; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; termination of capitation arrangements resulting in the transfer of membership to fee-for-service arrangements; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; possible changes in our pharmacy rebate program with drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes, earthquakes, etc.); the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes. 16 table of contents failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient medical claim reserves may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, our membership and profitability could decline. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program and in consumer-choice health plans, such as high deductible health plans with hsas. we believe that barriers to entry in many markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. the commercial pricing environment, particularly in the 2 to 300 member groups, is extremely competitive. we believe some of our competitors, including public and not-for-profit companies, are pricing aggressively to gain market share. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationship with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract, including our tricare contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our business could be materially adversely affected. our future performance depends in large part upon our management team ability to execute our strategy to position the company for the future. this strategy includes opportunities created by the mma. the mma offers new opportunities in our medicare programs, including our hmo, ppo, and pffs medicare advantage products, as well as our stand-alone pdp products. we have made substantial additional investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these expanded programs. over the last few years we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach since the enactment of the mma through expanded medicare product offerings. we are offering both the stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plan with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we have been approved to offer the medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth in our medicare membership and revenues impacts the pattern of our quarterly earnings, including the timing of membership enrollment and the speed with which the individual members meet their deductibles and cost-sharing provisions. we have also made substantial investments in the service personnel and technology necessary to administer the growing medicare business. we continue to work with cms to devise solutions to certain cms systems issues that have created some difficulty receiving correct information about eligibility of certain low income persons in the part d program. 17 table of contents the growth of our medicare business is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare business in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in the medicare business, which are described elsewhere in this document. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial segment business, with emphasis on our aso and individual products, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including our smart, consumer-choice products such as hsas as well as the adoption of new technologies and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business could be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have been taking steps to reduce the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. our business plans also include becoming a quality e-business organization by enhancing interactions with customers, brokers, agents, and other stakeholders through web-enabling technology. our strategy includes sales and distribution of health benefit products through the internet, and implementation of advanced self-service capabilities, for internal and external stakeholders. 18 table of contents there can be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our expanding operations, integrating new systems, protecting our proprietary information, and improving service levels will not be delayed or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data may result in a material adverse effect on our financial positions, results of operations and cash flows. we are involved in various legal actions, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages. we are a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers alleged malpractice; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; and claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail order pharmacy. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. additionally, the cost of business insurance coverage has increased significantly. as a result, we have increased the amount of risk that we self-insure, particularly with respect to matters incidental to our business. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. a description of material legal actions in which we are currently involved is included under legal proceedings in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these suits with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in the defense of these matters. therefore, these legal actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 19 table of contents as a government contractor, we are exposed to additional risks that could adversely affect our business or our willingness to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, tricare, and medicaid programs. our government segment accounted for approximately 70% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2006 and we expect the government segment to account for a greater percentage of our total premiums and aso fees in 2007. these programs involve various risks, including: at december 31, 2006, under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 518,900 medicare members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 17% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2006. the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; at december 31, 2006, our tricare business, which accounted for approximately 12% of our total premiums and aso fees during the year ended december 31, 2006, primarily consisted of the south region contract. the 5-year south region contract is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year at the government option. effective april 1, 2006, the south region contract was extended into the third option period, which runs from april 1, 2006 to march 31, 2007 and covers 2.9 million beneficiaries. we have received a notice from the government of its intent to renew the fourth option period. the 5-year south region contract expires march 31, 2009. as required under the contract, the target underwritten health care cost and underwriting fee amounts for the third option period were negotiated. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount could have a material adverse effect on our business. these changes may include, for example, an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. in the event government reimbursements were to decline from projected amounts, our failure to reduce the health care costs associated with these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business; at december 31, 2006, under our contracts with the puerto rico health insurance administration, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 523,100 medicaid members in puerto rico. these contracts accounted for approximately 2% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2006. we currently are operating under the terms of our contracts that expired october 31, 2006. due to several ongoing and unresolved issues with the program, the government of puerto rico has decided to delay the bid process for new contracts. we currently are working with the puerto rico health insurance administration regarding terms and rates which is expected to result in an extension of the existing contracts through september 30, 2007. there is no assurance that the puerto rico health insurance administration will request such an extension, and we are unable to predict the ultimate impact that any government policy or fiscal decisions might have on the continuation of our medicaid contracts in puerto rico. the loss of these contracts or significant changes in the puerto rico medicaid program as a result of legislative action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; the possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act; cms has implemented a risk adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare health plans according to health severity. a risk adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably 20 table of contents higher costs. under the risk adjustment methodology, all medicare health plans must collect, capture and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from inpatient and ambulatory treatment settings to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk adjusted premium payment to medicare health plans. cms has transitioned to the risk adjustment model for medicare advantage plans. in 2006, the portion of risk adjusted payment was increased to 75% from 50% in 2005. the phase-in of risk adjusted payment has increased to 100% in 2007; commensurate with phase-in of the risk-adjustment methodology, payments to medicare advantage plans have been increased by a budget neutrality factor. the budget neutrality factor was implemented to prevent overall health plan payments from being reduced during the transition to the risk-adjustment payment model. the payment adjustments for budget neutrality were first developed in 2002 and began to be used with the 2003 payments. the budget neutrality adjustment will begin phasing out in 2007 and will be fully eliminated by 2011. this does not mean, however, that the aggregate per-member payments to medicare plans will be reduced. as plans enroll less healthy beneficiaries, the need for the budget neutrality adjustment declines as the underlying risk adjusted medicare rates paid to plans increase to account for their enrollees greater healthcare needs. as a result of the cms payment methodology described previously, the amount and timing of our cms monthly premium payments per member may change materially, either favorably or unfavorably; our cms contracts which cover members prescription drugs under the part d provisions of the mma contain provisions for 1) risk sharing and 2) reimbursements of prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received. we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premium revenues related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions, which is not expected to be applied against the rigors of a final settlement with cms until mid-2007, requires us to consider factors that may not be certain. these factors include some first year implementation issues such as member eligibility differences with cms, as well as interpretations of cms operational guidance. beginning in 2008, the risk corridor thresholds increase which means we will bear more risk. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net liability of $738.7 million at december 31, 2006. reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent reimbursements from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent reimbursements for cms portion of claims costs which exceed the member out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent reimbursements from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 6 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms claims edit processes due to various reasons, including but not limited to, discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or reimbursement as a low-income or 21 table of contents reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms; future changes to these government programs which may affect our ability or willingness to participate in these programs; higher comparative medical costs; government regulatory and reporting requirements; and higher marketing and advertising costs per member as a result of marketing to individuals as opposed to groups. our industry is currently subject to substantial government regulation, which, along with possible increased governmental regulation or legislative reform, increases our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our profitability. the health care industry in general, and health insurance, particularly hmos and ppos are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation. our licensed subsidiaries are subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. certain of our subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, or other cash transfers to humana inc., our parent company, and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. as of december 31, 2006, we maintained aggregate statutory capital and surplus of $2,066.0 million in our state regulated subsidiaries. each of these subsidiaries was in compliance with applicable statutory requirements which aggregated $1,430.3 million. although the minimum required levels of equity are largely based on premium volume, product mix, and the quality of assets held, minimum requirements can vary significantly at the state level. given our anticipated continued premium growth in 2007, capital requirements will increase. we expect to fund these increased requirements with capital contributions from humana inc., our parent company, in the range of $325 million to $425 million in 2007. most states rely on risk-based capital requirements, or rbc, to define their required levels of equity discussed above. rbc is a model developed by the national association of insurance commissioners to monitor an entity solvency. this calculation indicates recommended minimum levels of required capital and surplus and signals regulatory measures should actual surplus fall below these recommended levels. if rbc were adopted by the remaining states and puerto rico at december 31, 2006, each of our subsidiaries would be in substantial compliance and we would have $516.2 million of aggregate capital and surplus above any of the levels that require corrective action under rbc, or individual state requirements. the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. 22 table of contents the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa could also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates. a business associate is a person or entity, other than a member of the work force, who on behalf of a covered entity performs or assists in the performance of a function or activity involving the use or disclosure of individually identifiable health information, or provides legal, accounting, consulting, data aggregation, management, administrative, accreditation, or financial services. laws in each of the states (including puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations, including the scope of benefits, rate formulas, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. we are also subject to various governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, the defense contract audit agency, and state departments of insurance and departments of health. several state attorneys general and departments of insurance are currently investigating the practices of insurance brokers, including some of those used by certain companies in the health care industry. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, or the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. other areas subject to substantial regulation include: licensing requirements; approval of policy language and benefits; mandated benefits and processes; approval of entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market; premium rates; and periodic examinations by state and federal agencies. there are two areas of legislation that can impact the company that are experiencing an increase in legislative activity. these two areas are medicare funding under mma and proposals to expand health insurance coverage. mma funding and associated program structure is an area of substantial legislative attention that may be influenced by federal budget considerations and medicare spending trends. the second area of increased activity is federal and state efforts to expand access to health coverage. these proposals may offer opportunities to serve individuals who are not currently in the health insurance market through public program expansions, coverage connectors or premium assistance programs. some access proposals also include increased regulation of our commercial business, particularly small group and individual, through a combination of benefit mandates, underwriting restrictions, rating limitations and assessments. 23 table of contents state and federal governmental authorities are continually considering changes to laws and regulations applicable to us and are currently considering regulations relating to: health insurance access and affordability; e-connectivity; universal health coverage; disclosure of provider fee schedules and other data about payments to providers, sometimes called transparency; disclosure of provider quality information; and formation of regional/national association health plans for small employers. all of these proposals could apply to us and could result in new regulations that increase the cost of our operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals or licenses or that legislative or regulatory change will not have a material adverse effect on our business. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals could adversely affect entry into new markets, our revenues or the number of our members, increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market as forecasted. any failure to manage administrative costs could hamper profitability. the level of our administrative expenses impacts our profitability. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage such expenses, increases in staff-related expenses, investment in new products, including our opportunities in the medicare programs, greater emphasis on small group and individual health insurance products, acquisitions, and implementation of regulatory requirements, among others, may occur from time to time. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contain our administrative expenses in line with our membership and this may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business could be adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. these providers may share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. 24 table of contents in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care physicians for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month fee under which physicians are paid an amount to provide all required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. our recently implemented mail order pharmacy business subjects us to additional regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. we have opened a mail order pharmacy business that subjects us to extensive federal, state and local regulation. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-services pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose our pharmacy subsidiary to civil and criminal penalties. our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries is restricted. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. these subsidiaries generally are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from our parent company. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts, or, in some states, any amount. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our operations or financial position may be adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating 25 table of contents agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. downgrades in our ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in investment income from our fixed income portfolio which is partially offset by both our debt position and the short-term duration of the fixed income investment portfolio. we evaluated the impact on our investment income and debt expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200 and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our debt position as of december 31, 2006 and 2005. our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may effect interest income, including, among others, unexpected changes of cash flow into and out of the portfolio, shifts in the asset mix between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points once, have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points three times and have changed by less than 100 basis points six times. libor was 5.36% at december 31, 2006. increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in thousands) as of december 31, 2006 investment portfolio $ (100,088 ) $ (66,422 ) $ (30,927 ) $ 30,809 $ 61,808 $ 93,019 debt 30,910 20,607 10,303 (10,303 ) (20,607 ) (30,910 ) total $ (69,178 ) $ (45,815 ) $ (20,624 ) $ 20,506 $ 41,201 $ 62,109 as of december 31, 2005 investment portfolio $ (54,167 ) $ (35,833 ) $ (17,331 ) $ 17,375 $ 34,661 $ 52,924 debt 33,842 22,561 11,281 (11,281 ) (22,561 ) (33,842 ) total $ (20,325 ) $ (13,272 ) $ (6,050 ) $ 6,094 $ 12,100 $ 19,082 60 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors for a description of a number of factors that could adversely affect our results or business. business segments we manage our business with two segments: government and commercial. the government segment consists of beneficiaries of government benefit programs, and includes three lines of business: medicare, military, and medicaid. the commercial segment consists of members enrolled in our medical and specialty products marketed to employer groups and individuals. we identified our segments in accordance with the aggregation provisions of statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 131, disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information , or sfas 131 , which aggregates products with similar economic characteristics. these characteristics include the nature of customer groups as well as pricing, benefits, and underwriting requirements. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer. the results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. we allocate all selling, general and administrative expenses, investment and other revenue, interest expense, and goodwill, but no other assets or liabilities, to our segments. members served by our two segments often utilize the same medical provider networks, enabling us to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. our segments also share indirect overhead costs and assets. as a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. 3 table of contents our products as more fully described in the products discussion that follows, we provide health insurance benefits under health maintenance organization, or hmo, private fee-for-service, or pffs, and preferred provider organization, or ppo, plans. in addition, we provide other benefits with our specialty products including dental, vision, and other supplementary benefits. the following table presents our segment membership at december 31, 2007, and premiums and administrative services only, or aso, fees by product for the year ended december 31, 2007: medical membership specialty membership premiums aso fees total premiums and aso fees percent of total premiums and aso fees (dollars in thousands) government: medicare advantage: hmo 453,100 $ 5,378,804 $ $ 5,378,804 21.7 % pffs 615,800 5,146,955 5,146,955 20.7 % ppo 74,100 647,658 647,658 2.6 % total medicare advantage 1,143,000 11,173,417 11,173,417 45.0 % medicare stand-alone pdp 3,442,000 3,668,425 3,668,425 14.8 % total medicare 4,585,000 14,841,842 14,841,842 59.8 % medicaid insured 384,400 555,594 555,594 2.3 % medicaid aso 180,600 8,556 8,556 % total medicaid 565,000 555,594 8,556 564,150 2.3 % military services insured 1,719,100 2,839,790 2,839,790 11.4 % military services aso 1,146,800 65,103 65,103 0.3 % total military services 2,865,900 2,839,790 65,103 2,904,893 11.7 % total government 8,015,900 18,237,226 73,659 18,310,885 73.8 % commercial: fully-insured: ppo 1,215,800 3,664,019 3,664,019 14.7 % hmo 592,800 1,998,981 1,998,981 8.1 % total fully-insured 1,808,600 5,663,000 5,663,000 22.8 % aso 1,643,000 307,823 307,823 1.2 % specialty 6,783,800 534,121 10,033 544,154 2.2 % total commercial 3,451,600 6,783,800 6,197,121 317,856 6,514,977 26.2 % total 11,467,500 6,783,800 $ 24,434,347 $ 391,515 $ 24,825,862 100.0 % our products marketed to government segment members and beneficiaries medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 20 years. since recent significant changes were made to the medicare program for health plans like those offered by us, we have expanded from a regional to a national presence, now offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. the resulting growing membership base provides us with greater leverage to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and programs such as personal nurse &reg; , a case management and disease management program, and a fitness program for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care, including cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes that result in living healthier. 4 table of contents medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits including wellness programs to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and pffs plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. we refer to beneficiaries enrolled in these plans collectively as medicare advantage, or ma-pd, members. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of traditional medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data mining techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, disease management programs, wellness and prevention programs, and a reduced monthly part b premium. since 2006, medicare beneficiaries have had more health plan options, including a prescription drug benefit option and greater access to a ppo offering with the roll-out of regional ppo plans. prior to 2006, ppo plans were offered on a local basis only. most medicare advantage plans must offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations, hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in many cases, these beneficiaries also may be required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. our medicare pffs plans have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at reimbursement rates equivalent to traditional medicare payment rates. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms risk adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits). cms transitioned to this risk-based reimbursement model while the old reimbursement model based on demographic data including gender, age, and disability status was phased out. in 2006, the portion of risk adjusted payment was increased to 75% from 50% in 2005. the phase-in of risk adjusted payment increased to 100% in 2007. under the risk adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must capture, collect, and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. commensurate with phase-in of the risk-adjustment methodology, payments to medicare advantage plans were increased by a budget neutrality factor. the budget neutrality factor was implemented to prevent overall 5 table of contents health plan payments from being reduced during the transition from the previous reimbursement model, based upon average original medicare fee-for-service spending, to the risk-adjustment payment model. the payment adjustments for budget neutrality were first developed in 2002 and first used with the 2003 payments. the budget neutrality adjustment began phasing out in 2007 and will be fully eliminated by 2011. this does not mean, however, that the aggregate per-member payments to medicare plans will be reduced. as plans enroll less healthy beneficiaries, the need for the budget neutrality adjustment declines as the underlying risk adjusted medicare rates paid to plans increase to account for their enrollees greater healthcare needs. as a result of changes in the cms payment processes, including the phasing in of the risk adjustment methodology and the phasing out of the budget neutrality adjustment described previously, our cms payments per member may change materially, either favorably or unfavorably. at december 31, 2007, we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 1,143,000 ma-pd members for which we received premium revenues of approximately $11.2 billion, or 45.0% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2007. under our medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 325,000 members. these contracts accounted for premium revenues of approximately $4.2 billion, which represented approximately 37.5% of our medicare advantage premium revenues, or 16.8% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2007. our hmo, pffs, and ppo products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies humana of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the year in which the contract would end, or humana notifies cms of its decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage business have been renewed for 2008. medicare stand-alone prescription drug products on january 1, 2006, we began offering stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our three plan choices between november 15 and december 31 for coverage that begins january 1. the enrollment period was extended to may 31 during 2006 because it was the first year of the program. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described beginning on page 56. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies humana of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the year in which the contract would end, or humana notifies cms of its decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp business have been renewed for 2008. medicaid product medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to facilitate the delivery of health care services primarily to low-income residents. each electing state develops, through a state specific regulatory agency, a medicaid managed care initiative that must be approved by cms. cms requires that medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. states currently either use a formal proposal process in which they review many bidders before selecting one or award individual contracts to qualified bidders who apply for entry to the program. in either case, the contractual relationship with a state generally is for a one-year period. under these contracts, we receive a fixed monthly payment from a government agency for which we are required to provide health 6 table of contents insurance coverage to enrolled members. due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a managed care product in their medicaid programs. our medicaid business, which accounted for approximately 2.3% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2007, consisted of contracts in puerto rico and florida, with the vast majority in puerto rico. military services under our tricare south region contract with the department of defense, we provide health insurance coverage to the dependents of active duty military personnel and to retired military personnel and their dependents. currently, three health benefit options are available to tricare beneficiaries. in addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in a hmo-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a ppo. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the united states department of defense. our current tricare south region contract, which we were awarded in 2003, covers approximately 2.9 million eligible beneficiaries as of december 31, 2007 in florida, georgia, south carolina, mississippi, alabama, tennessee, louisiana, arkansas, texas and oklahoma. the south region is one of the three regions in the united states as defined by the department of defense. of these eligible beneficiaries, 1.1 million were tricare aso members representing active duty beneficiaries, seniors over the age of 65 and beneficiaries in puerto rico for which the department of defense retains all of the risk of financing the cost of their health benefit. we have subcontracted with third parties to provide selected administration and specialty services under the contract. the tricare south region contract is for a five-year period subject to annual renewals at the federal government option, with the fifth option period scheduled to begin april 1, 2008 and run through march 31, 2009. the department of defense has the option to extend the current contract for up to six months under existing terms. congressional authority has also been granted to extend the contract in one year increments for a maximum of two additional years. in the second quarter of 2007, a draft solicitation related to the new tricare contracts, currently scheduled to begin april 1, 2009, was issued for industry comment. currently, we are anticipating a formal request for proposal, or rfp, for the tricare contracts. the tricare south region contract contains provisions that require us to negotiate a target health care cost amount annually with the federal government. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount could have a material adverse effect on our business. these changes may include, for example, an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. for the year ended december 31, 2007, tricare premium revenues were approximately $2.8 billion, or 11.4% of our total premiums and aso fees, and tricare aso fees totaled $65.1 million, or 0.3% of our total premiums and aso fees. in october 2007, we were awarded the department of veterans affairs first specialty network demonstration project, known as project hero (healthcare effectiveness through resource optimization), to support healthcare delivery to veterans. the contract is comprised of one base period and four one-year option periods subject to annual renewals at the federal government option, with services beginning january 1, 2008. international and green ribbon health operations we established our subsidiary humana europe in the united kingdom to provide commissioning support to primary care trusts, or pcts, in england. under the contracts we are awarded, we will work in partnership with local pcts, health care providers, and patients to strengthen health-service delivery and to implement strategies at a local level to help the national health service enhance patient experience, improve clinical outcomes, and reduce costs. we are in the start-up phase in anticipation of rendering services under contracts. 7 table of contents we participate in a medicare health support pilot program through green ribbon health, or grh, a joint-venture company with pfizer health solutions inc. grh is designed to support medicare beneficiaries living with diabetes and/or congestive heart failure in central florida. grh uses disease management initiatives including evidence-based clinical guidelines, personal self-directed change strategies, and personal nurses to help participants navigate the health system. revenues under the contract with cms, which expires october 31, 2008 unless terminated earlier, are subject to refund unless a savings target is met. to date, all revenues have been deferred until reliable estimates are determinable. our products marketed to commercial segment employers and members smart plans and other consumer products over the last several years, we have developed and offered various commercial products designed to provide options and choices to employers that are annually facing substantial premium increases driven by double-digit medical cost inflation. these smart plans, discussed more fully below, and other consumer offerings, which can be offered on either a fully-insured or aso basis, provided coverage to approximately 564,700 members at december 31, 2007, representing approximately 16.4% of our total commercial medical membership as detailed below. smart plans and other consumer membership other commercial membership commercial medical membership fully-insured 327,900 1,480,700 1,808,600 aso 236,800 1,406,200 1,643,000 total commercial medical 564,700 2,886,900 3,451,600 these products are often offered to employer groups as bundles , where the subscribers are offered various hmo and ppo options, with various employer contribution strategies as determined by the employer. paramount to our product strategy, we have developed a group of innovative consumer products, styled as smart products, that we believe will be a long-term solution for employers. we believe this new generation of products provides more (1) choices for the individual consumer, (2) transparency of provider costs, and (3) benefit designs that engage consumers in the costs and effectiveness of health care choices. innovative tools and technology are available to assist consumers with these decisions, including the trade-offs between higher premiums and point-of-service costs at the time consumers choose their plans, and to suggest ways in which the consumers can maximize their individual benefits at the point they use their plans. we believe that when consumers can make informed choices about the cost and effectiveness of their health care, a sustainable long term solution for employers can be realized. smart products, which accounted for approximately 55% of enrollment in all of our consumer-choice plans as of december 31, 2007, are only sold to employers who use humana as their sole health insurance carrier. some employers have selected other types of consumer-choice products, such as, (1) a product with a high deductible, (2) a catastrophic coverage plan, or (3) ones that offer a spending account option in conjunction with more traditional medical coverage or as a stand alone plan. unlike our smart products, these products, while valuable in helping employers deal with near-term cost increases by shifting costs to employees, are not considered by us to be long-term comprehensive solutions to the employers cost dilemma, although we view them as an important interim step. hmo our commercial hmo products provide prepaid health insurance coverage to our members through a network of independent primary care physicians, specialty physicians, and other health care providers who 8 table of contents contract with the hmo to furnish such services. primary care physicians generally include internists, family practitioners, and pediatricians. generally, the member primary care physician must approve access to certain specialty physicians and other health care providers. these other health care providers include, among others, hospitals, nursing homes, home health agencies, pharmacies, mental health and substance abuse centers, diagnostic centers, optometrists, outpatient surgery centers, dentists, urgent care centers, and durable medical equipment suppliers. because the primary care physician generally must approve access to many of these other health care providers, the hmo product is considered the most restrictive form of a health benefit plan. an hmo member, typically through the member employer, pays a monthly fee, which generally covers, together with some copayments, health care services received from, or approved by, the member primary care physician. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. for the year ended december 31, 2007, commercial hmo premium revenues totaled approximately $2.0 billion, or 8.1% of our total premiums and aso fees. ppo our commercial ppo products, which are marketed primarily to employer groups and individuals, include some types of wellness and utilization management programs. however, they typically include more cost-sharing with the member, through copayments and annual deductibles. ppos also are similar to traditional health insurance because they provide a member with more freedom to choose a physician or other health care provider. in a ppo, the member is encouraged, through financial incentives, to use participating health care providers, which have contracted with the ppo to provide services at favorable rates. in the event a member chooses not to use a participating health care provider, the member may be required to pay a greater portion of the provider fees. as part of our ppo products, we offer humanaone, a major medical product marketed directly to individuals. we offer this product in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. this individual product includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. for the year ended december 31, 2007, employer and individual commercial ppo premium revenues totaled approximately $3.7 billion, or 14.7% of our total premiums and aso fees. aso in addition to fully-insured smart plans and other consumer offerings, hmo and ppo products, we also offer aso products to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured ppo, hmo or smart plans and other consumer products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, most aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. for the year ended december 31, 2007, commercial aso fees totaled $307.8 million, or 1.2% of our total premiums and aso fees. specialty we also offer various specialty products including dental, vision, and other supplemental products. during 2007, we made investments which significantly expanded our specialty product offerings with the acquisitions of compbenefits corporation and kmg america corporation. these acquisitions significantly increased our dental 9 table of contents membership and added new product offerings including vision and other supplemental health and life benefit plans primarily sold on a voluntary basis. the supplemental health plans cover, for example, some of the costs associated with cancer and critical illness. at december 31, 2007, we had approximately 6.8 million specialty members, including 3.6 million dental members and 2.3 million vision members. for the year ended december 31, 2007, specialty product premiums and aso fees were approximately $544.2 million, or 2.2% of our total premiums and aso fees. membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2007, by market and product: government commercial medicare advantage medicare stand-alone pdp medicaid military services ppo hmo aso total percent of total (in thousands) florida 325.0 182.7 39.6 125.2 162.6 89.5 924.6 8.1 % texas 64.7 257.0 253.3 106.8 174.5 856.3 7.5 % kentucky 42.3 71.6 157.7 34.6 494.7 800.9 7.0 % illinois 47.7 93.4 123.5 58.4 129.2 452.2 3.9 % puerto rico 19.0 0.2 344.8 40.1 17.9 22.5 444.5 3.9 % wisconsin 45.2 60.6 71.1 57.0 207.8 441.7 3.8 % ohio 40.5 118.9 59.1 57.5 163.3 439.3 3.8 % missouri/kansas 54.1 181.8 46.3 15.4 5.2 302.8 2.6 % louisiana 54.3 60.7 38.2 22.0 124.3 299.5 2.6 % california 2.6 246.7 1.4 250.7 2.2 % indiana 22.7 110.8 47.1 0.9 54.4 235.9 2.1 % georgia 32.4 87.6 18.8 39.8 16.4 195.0 1.7 % tennessee 18.2 99.6 40.7 30.9 189.4 1.6 % north carolina 57.6 120.5 4.8 182.9 1.6 % arizona 28.7 48.2 43.9 19.4 31.0 171.2 1.5 % michigan 20.8 101.6 44.8 3.2 170.4 1.5 % new york 1.6 153.8 155.4 1.3 % virginia 44.8 95.5 1.2 141.5 1.2 % pennsylvania 14.9 119.1 3.2 137.2 1.2 % mississippi 9.6 84.1 15.1 2.3 111.1 1.0 % colorado 13.5 38.7 57.9 0.5 110.6 1.0 % minnesota 33.8 71.3 0.2 105.3 0.9 % puerto rico aso 180.6 180.6 1.6 % military services 1,719.1 1,719.1 15.0 % military services aso 1,146.8 1,146.8 10.0 % others 149.0 1,037.6 22.4 93.6 1,302.6 11.4 % totals 1,143.0 3,442.0 565.0 2,865.9 1,215.8 592.8 1,643.0 11,467.5 100.0 % provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care physicians, specialist physicians, dentists and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. 10 table of contents we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems and enrolling members into various disease management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care physician who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services, by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. our hospitalist programs use specially-trained physicians to effectively manage the entire range of an hmo member medical care during a hospital admission and to effectively coordinate the member discharge and post-discharge care. we have available a variety of disease management programs related to specific medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index or other nationally recognized inflation indexes. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of their intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. capitation for 2.3% of our december 31, 2007 medical membership, we contract with hospitals and physicians to accept financial risk for a defined set of hmo membership. in transferring this risk, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to coordinate substantially all of the medical care for their capitated hmo membership, including some health benefit administrative functions and claims processing. for these capitated hmo arrangements, we generally agree to reimbursement rates that target a benefits ratio ranging from 82% to 89%. the benefits ratio measures underwriting profitability and is computed by taking total benefit expenses as a percentage of premium revenues. providers participating in hospital-based capitated hmo arrangements generally receive a monthly payment for all of the services within their system for their hmo membership. providers participating in physician-based capitated hmo arrangements generally have subcontracted directly with hospitals and specialist physicians, and are responsible for reimbursing such hospitals and physicians for services rendered to their hmo membership. for another 4.7% of our december 31, 2007 medical membership, we contract with physicians under risk-sharing arrangements whereby physicians have assumed some level of risk for all or a portion of the medical costs of their hmo membership. although these arrangements do include physician capitation payments for services rendered, we share hospital and other benefit expenses and process substantially all of the claims under these arrangements. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. 11 table of contents medical membership under these various arrangements was as follows at december 31, 2007 and 2006: government segment commercial segment medicare advantage medicare stand-alone pdp military services military services aso medicaid total segment fully- insured aso total segment total medical medical membership: december 31, 2007 capitated hmo hospital system based 27,000 27,000 24,500 24,500 51,500 capitated hmo physician group based 23,000 150,500 173,500 25,800 25,800 199,300 risk-sharing 275,200 230,800 506,000 26,000 26,000 532,000 other 817,800 3,442,000 1,719,100 1,146,800 183,700 7,309,400 1,732,300 1,643,000 3,375,300 10,684,700 total 1,143,000 3,442,000 1,719,100 1,146,800 565,000 8,015,900 1,808,600 1,643,000 3,451,600 11,467,500 december 31, 2006 capitated hmo hospital system based 29,800 29,800 33,600 33,600 63,400 capitated hmo physician group based 23,900 148,300 172,200 29,900 29,900 202,100 risk-sharing 279,300 239,700 519,000 25,900 25,900 544,900 other 669,600 3,536,600 1,716,400 1,163,600 181,100 7,267,300 1,664,800 1,529,600 3,194,400 10,461,700 total 1,002,600 3,536,600 1,716,400 1,163,600 569,100 7,988,300 1,754,200 1,529,600 3,283,800 11,272,100 medical membership distribution: december 31, 2007 capitated hmo hospital system based 2.4 % 0.3 % 1.4 % 0.7 % 0.5 % capitated hmo physician group based 2.0 % 26.6 % 2.2 % 1.4 % 0.8 % 1.8 % risk-sharing 24.1 % 40.9 % 6.3 % 1.4 % 0.8 % 4.7 % all other membership 71.5 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 32.5 % 91.2 % 95.8 % 100.0 % 97.7 % 93.0 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % december 31, 2006 capitated hmo hospital system based 3.0 % 0.4 % 1.9 % 1.0 % 0.6 % capitated hmo physician group based 2.4 % 26.1 % 2.2 % 1.7 % 0.9 % 1.8 % risk-sharing 27.9 % 42.1 % 6.4 % 1.5 % 0.8 % 4.8 % all other membership 66.7 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 31.8 % 91.0 % 94.9 % 100.0 % 97.3 % 92.8 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % capitation expense as a percentage of total benefit expense was as follows for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 (dollars in thousands) benefit expenses: capitated hmo expense $ 366,075 1.8 % $ 382,584 2.2 % $ 456,123 3.9 % other benefit expense 19,904,456 98.2 % 17,038,620 97.8 % 11,195,347 96.1 % consolidated benefit expense $ 20,270,531 100.0 % $ 17,421,204 100.0 % $ 11,651,470 100.0 % 12 table of contents accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies, as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health plan employer data information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate hmos based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. physicians participating in our hmo networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations, or jcaho. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating physicians includes verification of their medical licenses; review of their malpractice liability claims histories; review of their board certifications, if applicable; and review of applicable quality information. committees, composed of a peer group of physicians, review the applications of physicians being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our hmo plans from ncqa and the american accreditation healthcare commission, also known as the utilization review accreditation commission, or urac. urac performs reviews for utilization management standards and for health plan and health network standards in quality management, credentialing, rights and responsibilities, and network management. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. accreditation specific to the utilization review process also is required in the state of georgia for licensure as an hmo or ppo. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa performs reviews of standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in all of our commercial hmo markets except puerto rico and in select ppo markets. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our medicare, medicaid, and commercial products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2007, we employed approximately 1,800 sales representatives, who are each paid a salary and per member commission to market our medicare and medicaid products in the united states and puerto rico. we employed approximately 600 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare and medicaid products by making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we also market our medicare products via a strategic alliance with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart. this alliance includes stationing humana representatives in certain wal-mart stores, sam club locations, and neighborhood markets across the country providing an opportunity to enroll medicare eligible individuals in person. in addition, we market our medicare products through licensed independent brokers and agents including strategic alliances with state farm &reg; and usaa. we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, including bonuses based on sales volume. individuals become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the 13 table of contents premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer or group exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. we also offer commercial health insurance and specialty products directly to individuals. at december 31, 2007, we used licensed independent brokers and agents and approximately 700 licensed employees to sell our commercial products. many of our employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. risk management through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determine the risk we are willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups must meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. small group laws in some states have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged based upon assessment of health conditions. underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos, including hmos and ppos owned by blue cross/blue shield plans. many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described on page 17 in item 1a. risk factors. government regulation federal regulation government regulation of health care products and services is a changing area of law that varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. the passing of the medicare modernization act of 2003, or mma, represents the most sweeping changes to medicare since the bba in 1997. changes in applicable laws and regulations are continually being considered, and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. these regulatory revisions could affect our operations and financial results. also, it may become increasingly difficult to control medical costs if federal and state bodies continue to consider and enact significant and sometimes onerous managed care laws and regulations. state and local regulation we are also subject to substantial regulation by the states in which we do business. we regularly are audited and subject to various enforcement actions by state departments of insurance. these departments enforce laws 14 table of contents relating to all aspects of our operations, including benefit offerings, marketing, claim payments, subsidiary capital requirements, and premium rate setting, especially with regard to our small group business. although any of the pending government actions could result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, and other sanctions against us, including exclusion from participation in government programs, we do not believe the results of any of these actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. pending federal and state legislation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives continue at both the federal and state levels to affect aspects of the nation health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for a complete description of all of the current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see item 1a. risk factors on page 22. other captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. in an effort to minimize credit risk, we insure our risks with a number of insurance companies having a long history of strong financial ratings. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and both of our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, and customer service. employees as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately 25,000 employees, including 28 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors this document includes both historical and forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements are made within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. we intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. we have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events, trends and uncertainties. these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, among other things, the information discussed below. in making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update each factor in future filings or communications regarding our business or results. our business is highly complicated, regulated and competitive with many different factors affecting results. if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, or if our estimates of benefits payable or future policy benefits payable based upon our estimates of future benefit claims are inadequate, our profitability could decline. we use a significant portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments, and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. however, many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services, including prescription drugs; increased cost of such services; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; membership in markets lacking adequate provider networks; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; termination of capitation arrangements resulting in the transfer of membership to fee-for-service arrangements; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; possible changes in our pharmacy rebate program with drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes, earthquakes, etc.); the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes. 16 table of contents failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, our membership and profitability could decline. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program as well as in smart plans and other consumer health plans, such as high deductible health plans with hsas. we believe that barriers to entry in many markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationship with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract, including our tricare contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our business could be materially adversely affected. our future performance depends in large part upon our management team ability to execute our strategy to position the company for the future. this strategy includes opportunities created by the mma. the mma offers new opportunities in our medicare programs, including our hmo, ppo, and pffs medicare advantage products, as well as our stand-alone pdp products. we have made substantial additional investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these expanded programs. over the last few years we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach since the enactment of the mma through expanded medicare product offerings. we are offering both the stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plan with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we have been approved to offer the medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare business is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare business in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in the medicare business, which are described elsewhere in this document. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial segment business, with emphasis on our aso and individual products, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including our smart plans and other consumer offerings such as hsas, and our specialty products, as well as the adoption of new technologies and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. 17 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business could be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have been taking steps to reduce the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. our business plans also include becoming a quality e-business organization by enhancing interactions with customers, brokers, agents, and other stakeholders through web-enabling technology. our strategy includes sales and distribution of health benefit products through the internet, and implementation of advanced self-service capabilities, for internal and external stakeholders. there can be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our expanding operations, integrating new systems, protecting our proprietary information, and improving service levels will not be delayed or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data may result in a material adverse effect on our financial positions, results of operations and cash flows. 18 table of contents we are involved in various legal actions, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages. we are a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers alleged malpractice; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; and claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail order pharmacy. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. additionally, the cost of business insurance coverage has increased significantly. as a result, we have increased the amount of risk that we self-insure, particularly with respect to matters incidental to our business. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. see legal proceedings in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these suits with certainty. as a government contractor, we are exposed to additional risks that could adversely affect our business or our willingness to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. our government segment accounted for approximately 74% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2007 and we expect the government segment to account for a greater percentage of our total premiums and aso fees in 2008. these programs involve various risks, including: at december 31, 2007, under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 507,700 medicare members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 19 table of contents 17% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2007. the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; at december 31, 2007, our military services business, which accounted for approximately 12% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2007, primarily consisted of the tricare south region contract. the 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2009, is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year at the government option. effective april 1, 2007, the south region contract was extended into the fourth option period, which runs from april 1, 2007 to march 31, 2008 and covers 2.9 million beneficiaries. we have received a notice from the government of its intent to renew the fifth option period which runs from april 1, 2008 to march 31, 2009. the department of defense has the option to extend the current contract for up to six months under existing terms. congressional authority has also been granted to extend the contract in one year increments for a maximum of two additional years. in the second quarter of 2007, a draft solicitation related to the new tricare contracts, currently scheduled to begin april 1, 2009, was issued for industry comment. currently, we are anticipating a formal request for proposal, or rfp, for the tricare contracts. if we were not awarded a new tricare contract, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. as required under the contract, the target underwritten health care cost and underwriting fee amounts for the fourth option period were negotiated. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount could have a material adverse effect on our business. these changes may include, for example, an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. in the event government reimbursements were to decline from projected amounts, our failure to reduce the health care costs associated with these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business; at december 31, 2007, under our contracts with the puerto rico health insurance administration, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 525,400 medicaid members in puerto rico. these contracts accounted for approximately 2% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2007. these contracts for the east and southeast regions of puerto rico are effective from november 1, 2006 through june 30, 2008. in 2007, we also entered into an aso contract with the puerto rico health administration for the metro north region which is effective from november 1, 2006 through october 31, 2009. the loss of these contracts or significant changes in the puerto rico medicaid program as a result of legislative action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; the possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act; cms has implemented a risk adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare health plans according to health severity. a risk adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. under the risk adjustment methodology, all medicare health plans must collect, capture and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from inpatient and ambulatory treatment settings to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk adjusted premium payment to medicare health plans. cms has transitioned to the risk adjustment model for medicare advantage plans. in 2006, the portion of risk adjusted payment was increased to 75% from 50% in 2005. the phase-in of risk adjusted payment was increased to 100% in 2007; 20 table of contents commensurate with phase-in of the risk-adjustment methodology, payments to medicare advantage plans have been increased by a budget neutrality factor. the budget neutrality factor was implemented to prevent overall health plan payments from being reduced during the transition to the risk-adjustment payment model. the payment adjustments for budget neutrality were first developed in 2002 and began to be used with the 2003 payments. the budget neutrality adjustment began phasing out in 2007 and will be fully eliminated by 2011. this does not mean, however, that the aggregate per-member payments to medicare plans will be reduced. as plans enroll less healthy beneficiaries, the need for the budget neutrality adjustment declines as the underlying risk adjusted medicare rates paid to plans increase to account for their enrollees greater healthcare needs. as a result of the cms payment methodology described previously, the amount and timing of our cms monthly premium payments per member may change materially, either favorably or unfavorably; our cms contracts which cover members prescription drugs under the part d provisions of the mma contain provisions for 1) risk sharing and 2) reimbursements of prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received. we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premium revenues related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain including member eligibility differences with cms. beginning in 2008, the risk corridor thresholds increase which means we will bear more risk. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net liability of $102.6 million at december 31, 2007. reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent reimbursements from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent reimbursements for cms portion of claims costs which exceed the member out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent reimbursements from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 6 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms claims edit processes due to various reasons, including but not limited to, discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or reimbursement as a low-income or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms; future changes to these government programs which may affect our ability or willingness to participate in these programs; higher comparative medical costs; government regulatory and reporting requirements; and higher marketing and advertising costs per member as a result of marketing to individuals as opposed to groups. 21 table of contents our industry is currently subject to substantial government regulation, which, along with possible increased governmental regulation or legislative reform, increases our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our profitability. the health care industry in general, and health insurance, particularly hmos and ppos are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation. our licensed subsidiaries are subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. certain of our subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, or other cash transfers to humana inc., our parent company, and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. based on the most recent statutory financial statements as of december 31, 2007, we maintained aggregate statutory capital and surplus of $2,905.2 million in our state regulated subsidiaries. this compares to applicable statutory requirements which aggregated $1,810.5 million. although the minimum required levels of equity are largely based on premium volume, product mix, and the quality of assets held, minimum requirements can vary significantly at the state level. given our anticipated continued premium growth in 2008, capital requirements will increase. we expect to fund these increased requirements with capital contributions from humana inc., our parent company, of approximately $200 million in 2008. most states rely on risk-based capital requirements, or rbc, to define their required levels of equity discussed above. rbc is a model developed by the national association of insurance commissioners to monitor an entity solvency. this calculation indicates recommended minimum levels of required capital and surplus and signals regulatory measures should actual surplus fall below these recommended levels. if rbc were adopted by the remaining states and puerto rico at december 31, 2007, we would have $966.3 million of aggregate capital and surplus above any of the levels that require corrective action under rbc, or individual state requirements based on the most recent statutory financial statements as of december 31, 2007. the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa could also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates. a business associate is a person or entity, other than a member of the work force, who on behalf of a covered entity performs or assists in the performance of a function or activity involving the use or disclosure of individually identifiable health information, or provides legal, accounting, consulting, data aggregation, management, administrative, accreditation, or financial services. 22 table of contents laws in each of the states (including puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations, including the scope of benefits, rate formulas, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. we are also subject to various governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. several departments of insurance are currently investigating the practices of insurance brokers, particularly in the medicare marketing area. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, or the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. other areas subject to substantial regulation include: licensing requirements; approval of policy language and benefits; mandated benefits and processes; approval of entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market; premium rates; and periodic examinations by state and federal agencies. two areas of legislation that can impact the company are experiencing an increase in activity. these are medicare funding under mma and proposals to expand health insurance coverage. mma funding and associated program structure is an area of substantial legislative attention that may be influenced by federal budget considerations and medicare spending trends. the federal and state efforts to expand access to health coverage may offer opportunities to serve individuals who are not currently in the health insurance market through public program expansions, coverage connectors or premium assistance programs. some access proposals also include increased regulation of our commercial business, particularly small group and individual, through a combination of benefit mandates, underwriting restrictions, rating limitations and assessments. state and federal governmental authorities are continually considering changes to laws and regulations applicable to us and are currently considering regulations relating to: health insurance access and affordability; regulation of broker licensing, particularly in the medicare marketing area; e-connectivity; universal health coverage; disclosure of provider fee schedules and other data about payments to providers, sometimes called transparency; disclosure of provider quality information; and formation of regional/national association health plans for small employers. 23 table of contents all of these proposals could apply to us and could result in new regulations that increase the cost of our operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals or licenses or that legislative or regulatory change will not have a material adverse effect on our business. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals could adversely affect entry into new markets, our revenues or the number of our members, increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market as forecasted. we are also subject to potential changes in the political environment that can affect public policy and can adversely affect the markets for our products. while it is not possible to predict when and whether fundamental policy changes would occur, these could include policy changes on the local, state, and federal level that could fundamentally change the dynamics of our industry, such as a larger role of the government in the health care arena. changes in public policy could materially affect our profitability and cash flow, our ability to retain or grow our business, and our financial position. any failure to manage administrative costs could hamper profitability. the level of our administrative expenses impacts our profitability. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage such expenses, increases in staff-related expenses, investment in new products, including our opportunities in the medicare programs, greater emphasis on small group and individual health insurance products, acquisitions, and implementation of regulatory requirements, among others, may occur from time to time. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contain our administrative expenses in line with our membership and this may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. in 2007, we acquired kmg america corporation, compbenefits corporation, and defenseweb technologies, inc. the failure to successfully integrate each and all of these entities may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. we may also be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business could be adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. these providers may share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. 24 table of contents in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care physicians for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month fee under which physicians are paid an amount to provide all required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. our recently implemented mail order pharmacy business subjects us to additional regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. we have opened a mail order pharmacy business that subjects us to extensive federal, state and local regulation. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-services pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose our pharmacy subsidiary to civil and criminal penalties. our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries is restricted. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. these subsidiaries generally are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from our parent company. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts, or, in some states, any amount. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our operations or financial position may be adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying 25 table of contents ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. downgrades in our ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations . recent events, including fallout from problems in the u.s. credit markets, indicate a potential near-term recession in the u.s. economy. the state of the u.s. economy could adversely affect our employer group renewal prospects and our ability to collect or increase premiums. the state of the u.s. economy could also adversely affect the budget of individual states and of the federal government. that could result in attempts to reduce payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military services, and medicaid programs, and could result in an increase in taxes and assessments on our activities. although we could attempt to mitigate or cover our exposure from such increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to mitigate or cover all of such costs which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in investment income from our fixed income portfolio which is partially offset by both our debt position and the short-term duration of the fixed income investment portfolio. we evaluated the impact on our investment income and debt expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200 and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our debt position as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may effect interest income, including, among others, unexpected changes of cash flow into and out of the portfolio, shifts in the asset mix between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points once, have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points four times and have changed by less than 100 basis points five times. libor was 4.70% at december 31, 2007. increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in thousands) as of december 31, 2007 investment portfolio $ (93,191 ) $ (62,603 ) $ (34,478 ) $ 29,613 $ 59,066 $ 88,782 debt 35,173 23,449 11,724 (11,724 ) (23,449 ) (35,173 ) total $ (58,018 ) $ (39,154 ) $ (22,754 ) $ 17,889 $ 35,617 $ 53,609 as of december 31, 2006 investment portfolio $ (100,088 ) $ (66,422 ) $ (30,927 ) $ 30,809 $ 61,808 $ 93,019 debt 30,910 20,607 10,303 (10,303 ) (20,607 ) (30,910 ) total $ (69,178 ) $ (45,815 ) $ (20,624 ) $ 20,506 $ 41,201 $ 62,109 61 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors for a description of a number of factors that could adversely affect our results or business. business segments we manage our business with two segments: government and commercial. the government segment consists of beneficiaries of government benefit programs, and includes three lines of business: medicare, military, and medicaid. the commercial segment consists of members enrolled in our medical and specialty products marketed to employer groups and individuals. we identified our segments in accordance with the 3 table of contents aggregation provisions of statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 131, disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information , or sfas 131 , which aggregates products with similar economic characteristics. these characteristics include the nature of customer groups as well as pricing, benefits, and underwriting requirements. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer. the results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. we allocate all selling, general and administrative expenses, investment and other revenue, interest expense, and goodwill, but no other assets or liabilities, to our segments. members served by our two segments often utilize the same provider networks, in some instances enabling us to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. our segments also share indirect overhead costs and assets. as a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. our products as more fully described in the products discussion that follows, we provide health insurance benefits under health maintenance organization, or hmo, private fee-for-service, or pffs, and preferred provider organization, or ppo, plans. in addition, we provide other benefits with our specialty products including dental, vision, and other supplementary benefits. the following table presents our segment membership at december 31, 2008, and premiums and administrative services only, or aso, fees by product for the year ended december 31, 2008: medical membership specialty membership premiums aso fees total premiums and aso fees percent of total premiums and aso fees (dollars in thousands) government: medicare advantage: hmo 557,300 $ 6,159,532 $ $ 6,159,532 21.6 % pffs 697,500 6,110,404 6,110,404 21.4 % ppo 181,100 1,508,063 1,508,063 5.3 % total medicare advantage 1,435,900 13,777,999 13,777,999 48.3 % medicare stand-alone pdp 3,066,600 3,380,400 3,380,400 11.9 % total medicare 4,502,500 17,158,399 17,158,399 60.2 % medicaid insured 385,400 591,535 591,535 2.1 % medicaid aso 85,700 9,089 9,089 0.0 % total medicaid 471,100 591,535 9,089 600,624 2.1 % military services insured 1,736,400 3,218,270 3,218,270 11.3 % military services aso 1,228,300 76,779 76,779 0.3 % total military services 2,964,700 3,218,270 76,779 3,295,049 11.6 % total government 7,938,300 20,968,204 85,868 21,054,072 73.8 % commercial: fully-insured: ppo 1,196,200 3,582,692 3,582,692 12.6 % hmo 782,600 2,586,711 2,586,711 9.1 % total fully-insured 1,978,800 6,169,403 6,169,403 21.6 % aso 1,642,000 351,000 351,000 1.2 % specialty 6,817,000 927,237 15,011 942,248 3.3 % total commercial 3,620,800 6,817,000 7,096,640 366,011 7,462,651 26.2 % total 11,559,100 6,817,000 $ 28,064,844 $ 451,879 $ 28,516,723 100.0 % 4 table of contents our products marketed to government segment members and beneficiaries medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 20 years. since recent significant changes were made to the medicare program for health plans like those offered by us, we have expanded from a regional to a national presence, now offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. the resulting growing membership base provides us with greater leverage to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and programs such as personal nurse &reg; , which is a case management and disease management program, and a fitness program for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care, including cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes that result in living healthier. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and pffs plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. we refer to beneficiaries enrolled in these plans collectively as medicare advantage, or ma-pd, members. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of traditional medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, disease management programs, wellness and prevention programs, and in some instances a reduced monthly part b premium. since 2006, medicare beneficiaries have had more health plan options, including a prescription drug benefit option and greater access to a ppo offering with the roll-out of regional ppo plans. prior to 2006, ppo plans were offered on a local basis only. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations, hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in most cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. our medicare pffs plans have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at reimbursement rates equivalent to traditional medicare payment rates. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms risk-adjustment model which uses health status 5 table of contents indicators, or risk scores, to improve the adequacy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits). cms transitioned to this risk-based reimbursement model while the old reimbursement model based on demographic data including gender, age, and disability status was phased out. the phase-in of risk adjusted payment was completed in 2007. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must capture, collect, and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. commensurate with the phase-in of the risk-adjustment methodology, payments to medicare advantage plans were increased by a budget neutrality factor. the budget neutrality factor was implemented to prevent overall health plan payments from being reduced during the transition from the previous reimbursement model, based upon average original medicare fee-for-service spending, to the risk-adjustment payment model. the budget neutrality adjustment began phasing out in 2007 and will be fully eliminated by 2011. at december 31, 2008, we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 1,435,900 ma-pd members for which we received premium revenues of approximately $13.8 billion, or 48.3% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2008. under our medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 365,700 members. these contracts accounted for premium revenues of approximately $4.5 billion, which represented approximately 32.6% of our medicare advantage premium revenues, or 15.7% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2008. our hmo, pffs, and ppo products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies humana of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the year in which the contract would end, or humana notifies cms of its decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage business have been renewed for 2009. medicare stand-alone prescription drug products on january 1, 2006, we began offering stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our three plan choices between november 15 and december 31 for coverage that begins january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described beginning on page 58. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies humana of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the year in which the contract would end, or humana notifies cms of its decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp business have been renewed for 2009. medicaid product medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to facilitate the delivery of health care services primarily to low-income residents. each electing state develops, through a state-specific regulatory agency, a medicaid managed care initiative that must be approved by cms. cms requires that medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. states currently either use a formal proposal process in which they review many bidders 6 table of contents before selecting one or award individual contracts to qualified bidders who apply for entry to the program. in either case, the contractual relationship with a state generally is for a one-year period. under these contracts, we receive a fixed monthly payment from a government agency for which we are required to provide health insurance coverage to enrolled members. due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a managed care product in their medicaid programs. our medicaid business, which accounted for approximately 2% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2008, consisted of contracts in puerto rico and florida, with the vast majority in puerto rico. we also added approximately 85,700 medicaid members with the october 2008 acquisition of php companies, inc., or cariten, under a contract in tennessee which expired on december 31, 2008 and was not renewed. military services under our tricare south region contract with the united states department of defense, we provide health insurance coverage to the dependents of active duty military personnel and to retired military personnel and their dependents. currently, three health benefit options are available to tricare beneficiaries. in addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in a hmo-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a ppo. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the department of defense. our current tricare south region contract, which we were awarded in 2003, covers approximately 3.0 million eligible beneficiaries as of december 31, 2008 in florida, georgia, south carolina, mississippi, alabama, tennessee, louisiana, arkansas, texas and oklahoma. the south region is one of the three regions in the united states as defined by the department of defense. of these eligible beneficiaries, 1.2 million were tricare aso members representing active duty beneficiaries, seniors over the age of 65 and beneficiaries in puerto rico for which the department of defense retains all of the risk of financing the cost of their health benefit. we have subcontracted with third parties to provide selected administration and specialty services under the contract. the 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2009, was subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year at the government option. on january 16, 2009, we entered into an amendment of solicitation/modification of contract to the tricare south region contract. the amendment added one additional one-year option period, the sixth option period, which runs from april 1, 2009 through march 31, 2010, and two additional six-month option periods: the seventh option period runs from april 1, 2010 through september 30, 2010 and the eighth option period runs from october 1, 2010 through march 31, 2011. exercise of each of the sixth, seventh, and eighth option periods is at the government option. under these extensions, government requirements, terms and conditions will remain the same as the current contract. on january 22, 2009, we were notified by the government of its intent to exercise its option to extend the tricare contract for the sixth option period. on march 24, 2008, the department of defense issued its formal request for proposal for new contracts for tricare medical benefits nationwide. we submitted our bid in june 2008 and, after discussions with the department of defense, submitted our final proposal revisions in january 2009. the tricare south region contract contains provisions that require us to negotiate a target health care cost amount annually with the federal government. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount could have a material adverse effect on us. these changes may include, for example, an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. we participate in a demonstration project known as project hero (healthcare effectiveness through resource optimization), under a contract with the department of veterans affairs, or va, to support healthcare delivery to veterans. under this contract, we arrange health care for veterans not otherwise available within the 7 table of contents va health care delivery system through our network of providers. we are compensated by the va for the cost of our providers services at a specified contractual amount per service plus an additional administrative fee for each transaction. the contract, under which we began providing services on january 1, 2008, is comprised of one base period and four one-year option periods subject to renewals at the federal government option. we are currently in the first option period, which expires on september 30, 2009. for the year ended december 31, 2008, revenues under this va contract were approximately $22.7 million, or less than 1% of our total premium and aso fees. for the year ended december 31, 2008, military services premium revenues were approximately $3.2 billion, or 11.3% of our total premiums and aso fees, and military services aso fees totaled $76.8 million, or 0.3% of our total premiums and aso fees. international and green ribbon health operations in august 2006, we established our subsidiary humana europe in the united kingdom to provide commissioning support to primary care trusts, or pcts, in england. under the contracts we are awarded, we work in partnership with local pcts, health care providers, and patients to strengthen health-service delivery and to implement strategies at a local level to help the national health service enhance patient experience, improve clinical outcomes, and reduce costs. for the year ended december 31, 2008, revenues under these contracts were approximately $7.7 million, or less than 1% of our total premium and aso fees. we participated in a medicare health support pilot program through green ribbon health, or grh, a joint-venture company with pfizer health solutions inc. grh was designed to support cms assigned medicare beneficiaries living with diabetes and/or congestive heart failure in central florida. grh used disease management initiatives, including evidence-based clinical guidelines, personal self-directed change strategies, and personal nurses to help participants navigate the health system. revenues under the contract with cms over the period which began november 1, 2005 and ended august 15, 2008 are subject to refund unless savings, satisfaction, and clinical improvement targets are met. under the terms of the contract, after a claims run-out period, cms is required to deliver a performance report during the third quarter of 2009. to date, all revenues have been deferred until reliable estimates are determinable, and revenues are not expected to be material when recognized. our products marketed to commercial segment employers and members smart plans and other consumer products over the last several years, we have developed and offered various commercial products designed to provide options and choices to employers that are annually facing substantial premium increases driven by double-digit medical cost inflation. these smart plans, discussed more fully below, and other consumer offerings, which can be offered on either a fully-insured or aso basis, provided coverage to approximately 670,000 members at december 31, 2008, representing approximately 18.5% of our total commercial medical membership as detailed below. smart plans and other consumer membership other commercial membership commercial medical membership fully-insured 392,500 1,586,300 1,978,800 aso 277,500 1,364,500 1,642,000 total commercial medical 670,000 2,950,800 3,620,800 these products are often offered to employer groups as bundles , where the subscribers are offered various hmo and ppo options, with various employer contribution strategies as determined by the employer. 8 table of contents paramount to our product strategy, we have developed a group of innovative consumer products, styled as smart products, that we believe will be a long-term solution for employers. we believe this new generation of products provides more (1) choices for the individual consumer, (2) transparency of provider costs, and (3) benefit designs that engage consumers in the costs and effectiveness of health care choices. innovative tools and technology are available to assist consumers with these decisions, including the trade-offs between higher premiums and point-of-service costs at the time consumers choose their plans, and to suggest ways in which the consumers can maximize their individual benefits at the point they use their plans. we believe that when consumers can make informed choices about the cost and effectiveness of their health care, a sustainable long term solution for employers can be realized. smart products, which accounted for approximately 45% of enrollment in all of our consumer plans as of december 31, 2008, are only sold to employers who use humana as their sole health insurance carrier. some employers have selected other types of consumer products, such as, (1) a product with a high deductible, (2) a catastrophic coverage plan, or (3) products that offer a spending account option in conjunction with more traditional medical coverage or as a stand-alone plan. unlike our smart products, these products, while valuable in helping employers deal with near-term cost increases by shifting costs to employees, are not considered by us to be long-term comprehensive solutions to the employers cost dilemma, although we view them as an important interim step. hmo our commercial hmo products provide prepaid health insurance coverage to our members through a network of independent primary care physicians, specialty physicians, and other health care providers who contract with the hmo to furnish such services. primary care physicians generally include internists, family practitioners, and pediatricians. generally, the member primary care physician must approve access to certain specialty physicians and other health care providers. these other health care providers include, among others, hospitals, nursing homes, home health agencies, pharmacies, mental health and substance abuse centers, diagnostic centers, optometrists, outpatient surgery centers, dentists, urgent care centers, and durable medical equipment suppliers. because the primary care physician generally must approve access to many of these other health care providers, the hmo product is considered the most restrictive form of a health benefit plan. an hmo member, typically through the member employer, pays a monthly fee, which generally covers, together with some copayments, health care services received from, or approved by, the member primary care physician. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. for the year ended december 31, 2008, commercial hmo premium revenues totaled approximately $2.6 billion, or 9.1% of our total premiums and aso fees. ppo our commercial ppo products, which are marketed primarily to employer groups and individuals, include some types of wellness and utilization management programs. however, they typically include more cost-sharing with the member, through copayments and annual deductibles. ppos also are similar to traditional health insurance because they provide a member with more freedom to choose a physician or other health care provider. in a ppo, the member is encouraged, through financial incentives, to use participating health care providers, which have contracted with the ppo to provide services at favorable rates. in the event a member chooses not to use a participating health care provider, the member may be required to pay a greater portion of the provider fees. as part of our ppo products, we offer humanaone, a major medical product marketed directly to individuals. we offer this product in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. this individual product includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. 9 table of contents for the year ended december 31, 2008, employer and individual commercial ppo premium revenues totaled approximately $3.6 billion, or 12.6% of our total premiums and aso fees. aso in addition to fully-insured smart plans and other consumer offerings, hmo and ppo products, we also offer aso products to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured ppo, hmo or smart plans and other consumer products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, most aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. for the year ended december 31, 2008, commercial aso fees totaled $351.0 million, or 1.2% of our total premiums and aso fees. specialty we also offer various specialty products, including dental, vision, and other supplemental products as well as disease management services under corphealth, inc. (d/b/a lifesynch) and mail-order pharmacy benefit administration services for our members under right sourcerx sm . during 2007, we made investments which significantly expanded our specialty product offerings with the acquisitions of compbenefits corporation and kmg america corporation. these acquisitions significantly increased our dental membership and added new product offerings, including vision and other supplemental health and life products primarily sold on a voluntary basis. the supplemental health plans cover, for example, some of the costs associated with cancer and critical illness. other supplemental health products also include a closed block of approximately 37,000 long-term care policies acquired in connection with the kmg acquisition. no new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. at december 31, 2008, we had approximately 6.8 million specialty members, including 3.6 million dental members and 2.2 million vision members. for the year ended december 31, 2008, specialty product premiums and aso fees were approximately $942.2 million, or 3.3% of our total premiums and aso fees. 10 table of contents membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2008, by market and product: government commercial medicare advantage medicare stand-alone pdp medicaid military services ppo hmo aso total percent of total (in thousands) florida 365.7 127.0 43.7 123.6 174.7 92.1 926.8 8.0 % kentucky 53.1 70.2 143.9 34.7 507.2 809.1 7.0 % texas 80.0 222.5 223.9 141.3 139.9 807.6 7.0 % illinois 66.1 91.2 123.5 80.7 162.4 523.9 4.5 % puerto rico 12.9 0.3 341.7 39.5 16.9 28.8 440.1 3.8 % wisconsin 53.1 79.8 68.3 47.6 185.3 434.1 3.8 % ohio 56.5 84.5 30.0 99.3 151.5 421.8 3.6 % tennessee 67.6 99.3 85.7 (a) 73.5 25.4 68.9 420.4 3.6 % louisiana 64.9 58.3 45.8 29.6 129.6 328.2 2.8 % missouri/kansas 60.7 170.7 56.2 18.4 6.7 312.7 2.7 % georgia 39.7 85.7 10.8 71.4 26.9 234.5 2.0 % indiana 29.5 106.2 41.4 1.3 54.3 232.7 2.0 % michigan 28.2 105.2 51.3 7.5 192.2 1.7 % north carolina 68.0 116.6 7.0 191.6 1.7 % arizona 29.7 52.2 37.7 25.9 8.8 154.3 1.3 % virginia 51.5 92.5 2.4 146.4 1.3 % california 4.0 127.7 1.2 132.9 1.2 % mississippi 11.6 84.0 18.9 3.1 117.6 1.0 % minnesota 38.4 77.3 115.7 1.0 % colorado 17.2 31.4 51.3 15.4 115.3 1.0 % iowa 24.8 84.7 0.5 110.0 1.0 % pennsylvania 20.6 86.2 2.5 109.3 1.0 % military services 1,736.4 1,736.4 15.0 % military services aso 1,228.3 1,228.3 10.6 % others 192.1 1,013.1 43.0 69.0 1,317.2 11.4 % totals 1,435.9 3,066.6 471.1 2,964.7 1,196.2 782.6 1,642.0 11,559.1 100.0 % (a) these medicaid members were added with the october 2008 acquisition of cariten under a contract which expired on december 31, 2008 and was not renewed. provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care physicians, specialist physicians, dentists and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems and enrolling members into various disease management programs. the 11 table of contents focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care physician who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. our hospitalist programs use specially-trained physicians to effectively manage the entire range of an hmo member medical care during a hospital admission and to effectively coordinate the member discharge and post-discharge care. we have available a variety of disease management programs related to specific medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index or other nationally recognized inflation indexes. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. capitation for approximately 2.3% of our medical membership at december 31, 2008, we contract with hospitals and physicians to accept financial risk for a defined set of hmo membership. in transferring this risk, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to coordinate substantially all of the medical care for their capitated hmo membership, including some health benefit administrative functions and claims processing. for these capitated hmo arrangements, we generally agree to reimbursement rates that target a benefit ratio. the benefit ratio measures underwriting profitability and is computed by taking total benefit expenses as a percentage of premium revenues. providers participating in hospital-based capitated hmo arrangements generally receive a monthly payment for all of the services within their system for their hmo membership. providers participating in physician-based capitated hmo arrangements generally have subcontracted directly with hospitals and specialist physicians, and are responsible for reimbursing such hospitals and physicians for services rendered to their hmo membership. for approximately 4.7% of our medical membership at december 31, 2008, we contract with physicians under risk-sharing arrangements whereby physicians have assumed some level of risk for all or a portion of the medical costs of their hmo membership. although these arrangements do include physician capitation payments for services rendered, we share hospital and other benefit expenses and process substantially all of the claims under these arrangements. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. 12 table of contents medical membership under these various arrangements was as follows at december 31, 2008 and 2007: government segment commercial segment medicare advantage medicare stand-alone pdp military services military services aso medicaid total segment fully- insured aso total segment total medical medical membership: december 31, 2008 capitated hmo hospital system based 25,600 25,600 24,000 24,000 49,600 capitated hmo physician group based 48,400 146,500 194,900 27,500 27,500 222,400 risk-sharing 274,100 235,600 509,700 25,000 25,000 534,700 other 1,087,800 3,066,600 1,736,400 1,228,300 89,000 7,208,100 1,902,300 1,642,000 3,544,300 10,752,400 total 1,435,900 3,066,600 1,736,400 1,228,300 471,100 7,938,300 1,978,800 1,642,000 3,620,800 11,559,100 december 31, 2007 capitated hmo hospital system based 27,000 27,000 24,500 24,500 51,500 capitated hmo physician group based 23,000 150,500 173,500 25,800 25,800 199,300 risk-sharing 275,200 230,800 506,000 26,000 26,000 532,000 other 817,800 3,442,000 1,719,100 1,146,800 183,700 7,309,400 1,732,300 1,643,000 3,375,300 10,684,700 total 1,143,000 3,442,000 1,719,100 1,146,800 565,000 8,015,900 1,808,600 1,643,000 3,451,600 11,467,500 medical membership distribution: december 31, 2008 capitated hmo hospital system based 1.8 % 0.3 % 1.2 % 0.7 % 0.4 % capitated hmo physician group based 3.4 % 31.1 % 2.5 % 1.4 % 0.8 % 1.9 % risk-sharing 19.1 % 50.0 % 6.4 % 1.3 % 0.7 % 4.7 % all other membership 75.7 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 18.9 % 90.8 % 96.1 % 100.0 % 97.8 % 93.0 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % december 31, 2007 capitated hmo hospital system based 2.4 % 0.3 % 1.4 % 0.7 % 0.5 % capitated hmo physician group based 2.0 % 26.6 % 2.2 % 1.4 % 0.8 % 1.8 % risk-sharing 24.1 % 40.9 % 6.3 % 1.4 % 0.8 % 4.7 % all other membership 71.5 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 32.5 % 91.2 % 95.8 % 100.0 % 97.7 % 93.0 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % capitation expense as a percentage of total benefit expense was as follows for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands) benefit expenses: capitated hmo expense $ 510,606 2.2 % $ 366,075 1.8 % $ 382,584 2.2 % other benefit expense 23,197,627 97.8 % 19,904,456 98.2 % 17,038,620 97.8 % consolidated benefit expense $ 23,708,233 100.0 % $ 20,270,531 100.0 % $ 17,421,204 100.0 % 13 table of contents accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies, as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health plan employer data information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate hmos based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. physicians participating in our hmo networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations, or jcaho. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating physicians includes verification of their medical licenses; review of their malpractice liability claims histories; review of their board certifications, if applicable; and review of applicable quality information. committees, composed of a peer group of physicians, review the applications of physicians being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our hmo plans from ncqa and the american accreditation healthcare commission, also known as the utilization review accreditation commission, or urac. urac performs reviews for utilization management standards and for health plan and health network standards in quality management, credentialing, rights and responsibilities, and network management. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. accreditation specific to the utilization review process also is required in the state of georgia for licensure as an hmo or ppo. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa performs reviews of standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in all of our commercial hmo markets except puerto rico and in select ppo markets. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our medicare, medicaid, and commercial products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2008, we employed approximately 1,800 sales representatives, as well as approximately 800 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare and medicaid products by making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we also market our medicare products via a strategic alliance with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart. this alliance includes stationing humana representatives in certain wal-mart stores, sam club locations, and neighborhood markets across the country providing an opportunity to enroll medicare eligible individuals in person. in addition, we market our medicare products through licensed independent brokers and agents including strategic alliances with state farm &reg; and united services automobile association, or usaa. commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure approved by cms. individuals become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an 14 table of contents employer or group exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. we also offer commercial health insurance and specialty products directly to individuals. at december 31, 2008, we used licensed independent brokers and agents and approximately 1,200 licensed employees to sell our commercial products. many of our employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. underwriting through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determine the risk we are willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups must meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. small group laws in some states have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged based upon assessment of health conditions. underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos, including hmos and ppos owned by blue cross/blue shield plans. many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in the section entitled risk factors in this report. government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a complete description of all of the current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see the section entitled risk factors in this report. 15 table of contents other captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and both of our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, and customer service. employees as of december 31, 2008, we had approximately 28,900 employees, including 34 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, or if our estimates of benefits payable or future policy benefits payable based upon our estimates of future benefit claims are inadequate, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments, and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services, including prescription drugs; increased cost of such services; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; possible changes in our pharmacy rebate program with drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes. in addition, we also estimate costs associated with long-duration insurance policies including life insurance, annuities, health, and long-term care policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. these future policy benefit reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal and maintenance expense assumptions from published actuarial tables, modified based upon actual experience. the basis for the liability for future policy benefits is established at the time each contract is acquired and would only change if our experience deteriorates to the point the level of the liability is not adequate to provide for future policy benefits. future policy benefits payable include $503.2 million at december 31, 2008 associated with a closed block of long-term care policies acquired in connection with the november 30, 2007 kmg acquisition. long-term care policies provide for long-duration coverage and, therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. the risk of a deviation of the actual morbidity and mortality rates from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block 17 table of contents of long-term care policies. we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care policies, and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. we expect to file premium rate increases in 2009. to the extent premium rate increases or loss experience vary from our acquisition date assumptions, future adjustments to reserves could be required. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, our membership and profitability could be materially adversely affected. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program as well as in smart plans and other consumer health plans, such as high deductible health plans with health savings accounts (hsas). we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationship with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract, including our tricare contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our business could be materially adversely affected. our future performance depends in large part upon our management team ability to execute our strategy to position the company for the future. this strategy includes opportunities created by the medicare modernization act of 2003, or mma. the mma offers opportunities in our medicare programs including our hmo and ppo, as well as our stand-alone pdp products. we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. the expansion of our provider networks and our success in attracting increasing numbers of pffs members to our network-based products positions us well for changes in the medicare program that will effectively eliminate the pffs plan option in 2011, although there can be no assurances that our pffs members will choose to move to our network-based products. over the last few years we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach since the enactment of the mma through expanded medicare product offerings. we are offering both the stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plan with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer the medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. 18 table of contents the growth of our medicare business is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare business in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in the medicare business. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial segment business, with emphasis on our aso and individual products, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including our smart plans and other consumer offerings such as hsas, and our specialty products such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, as well as the adoption of new technologies and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business could be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have been taking steps to reduce the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. our business plans also include becoming a quality e-business organization by enhancing interactions with customers, brokers, agents, and other stakeholders through web-enabling technology. our strategy includes sales and distribution of health benefit products through the internet, and implementation of advanced self-service capabilities, for internal and external stakeholders. 19 table of contents there can be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our expanding operations, integrating new systems, protecting our proprietary information, and improving service levels will not be delayed or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are involved in various legal actions, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages. we are a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, securities laws claims, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers alleged malpractice; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; and claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. additionally, the cost of business insurance coverage has increased significantly. as a result, we have increased the amount of risk that we self-insure, particularly with respect to matters incidental to our business. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 20 table of contents see legal proceedings in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these suits with certainty. as a government contractor, we are exposed to additional risks that could adversely affect our business or our willingness to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. our government segment accounted for approximately 74% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2008. these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2008, under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 492,700 medicare members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 16% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2008. the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2008, our military services business, which accounted for approximately 12% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2008, primarily consisted of the tricare south region contract which covers approximately 3.0 million beneficiaries. the 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2009, was subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year at the government option. on january 16, 2009, we entered into an amendment of solicitation/modification of contract to the tricare south region contract. the amendment added one additional one-year option period, the sixth option period, which runs from april 1, 2009 through march 31, 2010, and two additional six-month option periods: the seventh option period runs from april 1, 2010 through september 30, 2010 and the eighth option period runs from october 1, 2010 through march 31, 2011. exercise of each of the sixth, seventh, and eighth option periods is at the government option. under these extensions, government requirements, terms and conditions will remain the same as the current contract. on january 22, 2009, we were notified by the government of its intent to exercise its option to extend the tricare contract for the sixth option period. as required under the contract, the target underwritten health care cost and underwriting fee amounts for each option period are negotiated. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount could have a material adverse effect on us. these changes may include, for example, an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. in the event government reimbursements were to decline from projected amounts, our failure to reduce the health care costs associated with these programs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. on march 24, 2008, the department of defense issued its formal request for proposal for new contracts for tricare medical benefits nationwide. we submitted our bid in june 2008 and, after discussions with the department of defense, submitted our final proposal revisions in january 2009. if we are not awarded a new tricare contract, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2008, under our contracts with the puerto rico insurance administration and puerto rico health administration, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 341,700 medicaid members in puerto rico. these contracts accounted for approximately 2% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2008. in august 2008, we renewed our contracts with the puerto rico insurance administration for the east and southeast regions. these contracts expire on june 30, 2009. the loss of these contracts or 21 table of contents significant changes in the puerto rico medicaid program as a result of legislative action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we also provided services under a three-year aso contract with the puerto rico health administration for the metro north region. the puerto rico health administration did not renew the third year of the aso contract and the contract expired on september 30, 2008. the loss of this contract did not have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. cms utilizes a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare advantage plans according to health severity. a risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all medicare advantage plans must collect, capture and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk adjusted premium payment to medicare advantage plans. cms has announced that it will perform audits of selected medicare advantage plans each year to validate the provider coding practices under the risk-adjustment model used to reimburse medicare advantage plans. these audits will involve a comprehensive review of medical records, and may result in contract-level payment adjustments to premium payments made to a health plan pursuant to its medicare contract with cms or other payment reductions. the first data validation audits will focus on risk-adjustment data for 2006 used to determine 2007 payment amounts. several humana contracts are included in audits being undertaken by cms. if necessary, based on audit results, cms may make contract-level payment adjustments that may occur during 2009, and adjustments may occur prior to humana or other medicare advantage plans having the opportunity to appeal audit findings. we primarily rely on providers to appropriately document risk-adjustment data in their medical records and appropriately code their claim submissions, which we send to cms as the basis for our risk-adjustment model premium. we are working with cms and our industry group to develop an orderly audit process, for which cms has not yet indicated the complete details. therefore, we are unable to predict the complete audit methodology to be used by cms, the outcome of these audits, or whether these audits would result in a payment adjustment. however, it is reasonably possible that a payment adjustment as a result of these audits could occur, and that any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members prescription drugs under the part d provisions of the mma contain provisions for 1) risk sharing and 2) reimbursements of prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received. we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premium revenues related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. beginning in 2008, the risk corridor thresholds increased which means we bear more risk. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net receivable of $55.4 million at december 31, 2008. 22 table of contents reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent reimbursements from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent reimbursements for cms portion of claims costs which exceed the member out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent reimbursements from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms claims edit processes due to various reasons, including but not limited to, discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or reimbursement as a low-income or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. other risks could include: future changes to these government programs which may affect our ability or willingness to participate in these programs; higher comparative medical costs; government regulatory and reporting requirements; and higher marketing and advertising costs per member as a result of marketing to individuals as opposed to groups. our industry is currently subject to substantial government regulation, which, along with possible increased governmental regulation or legislative change, could increase our costs of doing business and could materially adversely affect our profitability. the health care industry in general and health insurance, particularly hmos and ppos, are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation. the enactment of the medicare improvements for patients and providers act of 2008, or the act, in july 2008 could affect our medicare operations. principally, beginning in 2011 sponsors of medicare advantage pffs plans will be required to contract with providers to establish adequate networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. additionally, the act prohibits several different kinds of marketing activities by medicare plan sponsors and their brokers beginning in 2009, and will phase out indirect medical education (ime) costs beginning in 2010. we are implementing various operational and strategic initiatives that are intended to answer the challenges presented by the act. in addition, most of our pffs enrollees reside in geographies where we have developed a ppo network and offer a ppo plan. we will continue to develop our ppo network and build network-based plan offerings to address the network restriction. nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement those initiatives. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our licensed subsidiaries are subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. 23 table of contents certain of our subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, or other cash transfers to humana inc., our parent company, and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. although minimum required levels of equity are largely based on premium volume, product mix, and the quality of assets held, minimum requirements can vary significantly at the state level. based on the statutory financial statements as of december 31, 2008, we maintained aggregate statutory capital and surplus of $3.5 billion in our state regulated subsidiaries, $1.4 billion above the aggregate $2.1 billion in applicable statutory requirements which would trigger any regulatory action by the respective states. the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates. a business associate is a person or entity, other than a member of the work force, who on behalf of a covered entity performs or assists in the performance of a function or activity involving the use or disclosure of individually identifiable health information, or provides legal, accounting, consulting, data aggregation, management, administrative, accreditation, or financial services. laws in each of the states (including puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations, including the scope of benefits, rate formulas, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. we are also subject to various governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, or the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. other areas subject to substantial regulation include: licensing requirements; approval of policy language and benefits; mandated benefits and processes; 24 table of contents approval of entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market; premium rates; and periodic examinations by state and federal agencies. two areas of legislation that can impact the company are experiencing continued activity. these are medicare funding under mma and proposals to expand health insurance coverage. mma funding and associated program structure is an area of substantial legislative attention that may be influenced by federal budget considerations and medicare spending trends. the federal and state efforts to expand access to health coverage may offer opportunities to serve individuals who are not currently in the health insurance market through public program expansions, coverage connectors or premium assistance programs. current state fiscal conditions may affect the scope and scale of proposals. some access proposals also include increased regulation of our commercial business, particularly small group and individual, through a combination of benefit mandates, underwriting restrictions, rating limitations and assessments. state and federal governmental authorities are continually considering changes to laws and regulations applicable to us and are currently considering regulations relating to: health insurance access and affordability; regulation of broker licensing and commission rates, particularly in the medicare marketing area; e-connectivity and electronic health records; universal health coverage; disclosure of provider fee schedules and other data about payments to providers, sometimes called transparency; disclosure of provider quality information; and formation of regional purchasing pools for small employers and individuals. all of these proposals could apply to us and could result in new regulations that increase the cost of our operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals or licenses or that legislative or regulatory change will not have a material adverse effect on us. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals could adversely affect entry into new markets, our revenues or the number of our members, increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market as forecasted. we are also subject to potential changes in the political environment that can affect public policy and can adversely affect the markets for our products. while it is not possible to predict when and whether fundamental policy changes would occur, these could include policy changes on the local, state, and federal level that could fundamentally change the dynamics of our industry, such as a larger role of the government in the health care arena. changes in public policy could materially affect our profitability and cash flow, our ability to retain or grow our business, and our financial position. any failure to manage administrative costs could hamper profitability. the level of our administrative expenses impacts our profitability. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage such expenses, increases in staff-related expenses, investment in new products, including our opportunities in the medicare programs, greater emphasis on small group and individual health insurance products, acquisitions, and implementation of regulatory requirements, among others, may occur from time to time. 25 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contain our administrative expenses in line with our membership and this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, and other significant transactions successfully could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. in 2008, we acquired unitedhealth group las vegas, nevada individual securehorizons medicare advantage hmo business, osf health plans, inc., metcare health plans, inc., and php companies, inc. (d/b/a cariten healthcare), and in late 2007, we acquired kmg america corporation and compbenefits corporation. the failure to successfully integrate these entities and businesses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. we may also be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business could be adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. these providers may share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care physicians for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month fee under which physicians are paid an amount to provide all required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. 26 table of contents our mail-order pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our mail-order pharmacy business, opened in 2006, competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, internet companies as well as other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. it also subjects us to extensive federal, state and local regulation. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-services pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose our pharmacy subsidiary to civil and criminal penalties. our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries is restricted. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. these subsidiaries generally are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from our parent company. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts, or, in some states, any amount. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our operations or financial position may be adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under recent regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would increase, our sales and earnings could decrease and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 27 table of contents changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. the current recession and overall state of the u.s. economy could adversely affect our employer group and individual business, including medicare, renewal prospects and our ability to collect or increase premiums. the state of the u.s. economy could also adversely affect the budget of individual states and of the federal government. that could result in attempts to reduce payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military services, and medicaid programs, and could result in an increase in taxes and assessments on our activities. although we could attempt to mitigate or cover our exposure from such increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to mitigate or cover all of such costs which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in addition, general inflationary pressures may affect the costs of medical and dental care, increasing the costs of paying claims. we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, foreign regulators, state insurance regulators, the u.s. securities and exchange commission, the new york stock exchange, the u.s. department of justice and state attorneys general. in light of the difficult economic conditions, some of these authorities are considering or may in the future consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or to otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. these authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. all of these possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, either of which in turn could have a material adverse effect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the securities and credit markets recently have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. the volatility and disruption in the securities and credit markets has impacted our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities is based upon specific identification. in analyzing individual securities for other-than-temporary impairments, we consider factors affecting the issuer, factors affecting the industry within which the issuer operates, and general debt and equity market trends. we also consider the length of time an investment fair value has been below its carrying value, the severity of the decline, the near-term prospects for recovery to cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment until maturity or market recovery is realized. during 2008, we realized losses associated with other-than-temporary impairments of $103.1 million. gross unrealized losses were $313.0 million and gross unrealized gains were $83.2 million at december 31, 2008. given current market conditions, there is a continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions could significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as 28 table of contents the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. given the current economic climate, our stock and the stocks of other companies in the insurance industry may be increasingly subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. recently, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility. company-specific issues and market developments generally in the insurance industry and in the regulatory environment may have caused this volatility. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to materially fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: general economic conditions; quarterly variations in operating results; natural disasters, terrorist attacks and epidemics; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; press releases or negative publicity relating to our competitors or us or relating to trends in our markets; regulatory changes and adverse outcomes from litigation and government or regulatory investigations; sales of stock by insiders; changes in our credit ratings; limitations on premium levels or the ability to raise premiums on existing policies; increases in minimum capital, reserves, and other financial strength requirements; and limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock. these factors could materially reduce our stock price. in addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in investment income from our fixed income portfolio and cash and cash equivalents which are partially offset by both our outstanding indebtedness and the short-term duration of the fixed income investment portfolio. we evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200 and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness as of december 31, 2008 and 2007. our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may effect interest income, including, among others, unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points twice, have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points four times and have changed by less than 100 basis points four times. increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in thousands) as of december 31, 2008 investment income $ (23,748 ) $ (17,588 ) $ (15,483 ) $ 25,773 $ 47,625 $ 70,225 interest expense 2,128 2,128 2,128 (2,128 ) (4,256 ) (6,384 ) pretax $ (21,620 ) $ (15,460 ) $ (13,355 ) $ 23,645 $ 43,369 $ 63,841 as of december 31, 2007 investment income $ (93,191 ) $ (62,603 ) $ (34,478 ) $ 29,613 $ 59,066 $ 88,782 interest expense 35,173 23,449 11,724 (11,724 ) (23,449 ) (35,173 ) pretax $ (58,018 ) $ (39,154 ) $ (22,754 ) $ 17,889 $ 35,617 $ 53,609 64 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. business segments we manage our business with two segments: government and commercial. the government segment consists of beneficiaries of government benefit programs, and includes three lines of business: medicare, military, and medicaid. the commercial segment consists of members enrolled in our medical and specialty products marketed to employer groups and individuals. when identifying our segments, we aggregated products 3 table of contents with similar economic characteristics. these characteristics include the nature of customer groups as well as pricing, benefits, and underwriting requirements. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer. the results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. we allocate all selling, general and administrative expenses, investment and other revenue, interest expense, and goodwill, but no other assets or liabilities, to our segments. members served by our two segments often utilize the same provider networks, in some instances enabling us to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. our segments also share indirect overhead costs and assets. as a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. our products as more fully described in the products discussion that follows, we provide health insurance benefits under health maintenance organization, or hmo, private fee-for-service, or pffs, and preferred provider organization, or ppo, plans. in addition, we provide other benefits with our specialty products including dental, vision, and other supplementary benefits. the following table presents our segment membership at december 31, 2009, and premiums and administrative services only, or aso, fees by product for the year ended december 31, 2009: medical membership specialty membership premiums aso fees total premiums and aso fees percent of total premiums and aso fees (dollars in thousands) government: medicare advantage: hmo 591,900 $ 7,633,764 $ $ 7,633,764 25.1 % pffs 564,200 5,630,690 5,630,690 18.5 % ppo 352,400 3,148,847 3,148,847 10.4 % total medicare advantage 1,508,500 16,413,301 16,413,301 54.0 % medicare stand-alone pdp 1,927,900 2,327,418 2,327,418 7.6 % total medicare 3,436,400 18,740,719 18,740,719 61.6 % medicaid insured 401,700 646,195 646,195 2.1 % military services insured 1,756,000 3,426,739 3,426,739 11.3 % military services aso 1,278,400 108,442 108,442 0.3 % total military services 3,034,400 3,426,739 108,442 3,535,181 11.6 % total government 6,872,500 22,813,653 108,442 22,922,095 75.3 % commercial: fully-insured: ppo 1,053,200 3,188,598 3,188,598 10.5 % hmo 786,300 2,996,560 2,996,560 9.9 % total fully-insured 1,839,500 6,185,158 6,185,158 20.4 % aso 1,571,300 373,376 373,376 1.2 % specialty 7,200,100 927,940 14,317 942,257 3.1 % total commercial 3,410,800 7,200,100 7,113,098 387,693 7,500,791 24.7 % total 10,283,300 7,200,100 $ 29,926,751 $ 496,135 $ 30,422,886 100.0 % 4 table of contents our products marketed to government segment members and beneficiaries medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 20 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. the resulting growing membership base provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care, including cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes that result in living healthier. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under traditional medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and pffs plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of original medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, disease management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. since 2006, medicare beneficiaries have had more health plan options, including a prescription drug benefit option. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations, hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in most cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. our medicare pffs plans generally have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to traditional medicare payment rates. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the adequacy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital 5 table of contents inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits). cms transitioned to this risk-based payment model while the old payment model based on demographic data including gender, age, and disability status was phased out. the phase-in of risk adjusted payment was completed in 2007. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. commensurate with the phase-in of the risk-adjustment methodology, payments to medicare advantage plans were increased by a budget neutrality factor. the budget neutrality factor was implemented to prevent overall health plan payments from being reduced during the transition from the previous payment model, based upon average original medicare fee-for-service spending, to the risk-adjustment payment model. the budget neutrality adjustment began phasing out in 2007 and will be fully eliminated by 2011. at december 31, 2009, we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 1,508,500 medicare advantage members for which we received premium revenues of approximately $16.4 billion, or 54.0%, of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2009. under our medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 377,900 members. these contracts accounted for premium revenues of approximately $5.2 billion, which represented approximately 31.8% of our medicare advantage premium revenues, or 17.1% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2009. our hmo, pffs, and ppo products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage business have been renewed for 2010. medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between november 15 and december 31 for coverage that begins january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described beginning on page 60. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp business have been renewed for 2010. medicare stand-alone pdp premium revenues were approximately $2.3 billion, or 7.6% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2009. medicaid product medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to facilitate the delivery of health care services primarily to low-income residents. each electing state develops, through a state-specific regulatory agency, a medicaid managed care initiative that must be approved by cms. cms requires that medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. states currently either use a formal proposal process in which they review many bidders before selecting one or award individual contracts to qualified bidders who apply for entry to the program. in either case, the contractual relationship with a state generally is for a one-year period. under these contracts, we 6 table of contents receive a fixed monthly payment from a government agency for which we are required to provide health insurance coverage to enrolled members. due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a managed care product in their medicaid programs. our medicaid business, which accounted for premium revenues of approximately $646.2 million, or 2.1%, of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2009, consists of contracts in puerto rico and florida, with the vast majority in puerto rico. military services under our tricare south region contract with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide health insurance coverage to the dependents of active duty military personnel and to retired military personnel and their dependents. currently, three health benefit options are available to tricare beneficiaries. in addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in a hmo-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a ppo. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the department of defense. our current tricare south region contract, which we were awarded in 2003, covers approximately 3.0 million eligible beneficiaries as of december 31, 2009 in florida, georgia, south carolina, mississippi, alabama, tennessee, louisiana, arkansas, texas and oklahoma. the south region is one of the three regions in the united states as defined by the department of defense. of these eligible beneficiaries, 1.3 million were tricare aso members representing active duty beneficiaries, seniors over the age of 65 and beneficiaries in puerto rico for which the department of defense retains all of the risk of financing the cost of their health benefit. we have subcontracted with third parties to provide selected administration and specialty services under the contract. the original 5-year south region contract expired march 31, 2009. through an amendment of solicitation/modification of contract to the tricare south region contract, an additional one-year option period, the sixth option period, which runs from april 1, 2009 through march 31, 2010, was exercised by the government. the amendment also provides for two additional six-month option periods: the seventh option period runs from april 1, 2010 through september 30, 2010 and the eighth option period runs from october 1, 2010 through march 31, 2011. exercise of each of the seventh and eighth option periods is at the government option. on december 16, 2009, we were notified by department of defense tricare management activity, or tma, that it intends to exercise its options to extend the tricare south region contract for option period vii and option period viii. the exercise of these option periods would effectively extend the tricare south region contract through march 31, 2011. the contract transition provisions require the continuation of certain activities, primarily claims processing, during a wind-down period lasting approximately six months following the expiration date. claims incurred on or prior to the expiration date would continue to be processed during the wind-down period under the terms existing prior to the expiration date. the tricare south region contract contains provisions that require us to negotiate a target health care cost amount annually with the federal government. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount may have a material adverse effect on us. these changes may include an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. in july 2009, we were notified by the department of defense that we were not awarded the third generation tricare program contract for the south region which had been subject to competing bids. we filed a protest with the government accountability office, or gao, in connection with the award to another contractor citing discrepancies between the award criteria and procedures prescribed in the request for proposals issued by the dod and those that appear to have been used by the dod in making its contractor selection. in october 2009, we learned that the gao had upheld our protest, determining that the tma evaluation of our proposal had unreasonably failed to fully recognize and reasonably account for the likely cost savings associated with our 7 table of contents record of obtaining network provider discounts from our established network in the south region. on december 22, 2009, we were advised that tma notified the gao of its intent to implement corrective action consistent with the discussion contained within the gao decision with respect to our protest. at this time, we are not able to determine what actions tma will take in response to recommendations by the gao, nor can we determine whether or not the protest decision by the gao will have any effect upon the ultimate disposition of the contract award. for the year ended december 31, 2009, military services premium revenues were approximately $3.4 billion, or 11.3% of our total premiums and aso fees, and military services aso fees totaled $108.4 million, or 0.3% of our total premiums and aso fees. the tricare south region contract represents approximately 97% of total military services premiums and aso fees. international operations in august 2006, we established our subsidiary humana europe in the united kingdom to provide commissioning support to primary care trusts, or pcts, in england. under the contracts we are awarded, we work in partnership with local pcts, health care providers, and patients to strengthen health-service delivery and to implement strategies at a local level to help the national health service enhance patient experience, improve clinical outcomes, and reduce costs. for the year ended december 31, 2009, revenues under these contracts were approximately $9.0 million, or less than 0.1% of our total premium and aso fees. our products marketed to commercial segment employers and members we offer medical and specialty benefits to employer groups and individuals in the commercial market. our commercial medical products offered as hmo, ppo or aso, more fully described in the following sections, include offerings designed to provide additional options to the consumer. for example, our smart products give more cost control and predictability to employers and more choice and control over healthcare decision-making to employees. online tools and resources deliver information, convenience, and easy access for members enrolled in our smart products. our other consumer offerings include products with a high deductible offering in conjunction with a spending account. hmo our commercial hmo products provide prepaid health insurance coverage to our members through a network of independent primary care physicians, specialty physicians, and other health care providers who contract with the hmo to furnish such services. primary care physicians generally include internists, family practitioners, and pediatricians. generally, the member primary care physician must approve access to certain specialty physicians and other health care providers. these other health care providers include hospitals, nursing homes, home health agencies, pharmacies, mental health and substance abuse centers, diagnostic centers, optometrists, outpatient surgery centers, dentists, urgent care centers, and durable medical equipment suppliers. because the primary care physician generally must approve access to many of these other health care providers, the hmo product is considered the most restrictive form of a health benefit plan. an hmo member, typically through the member employer, pays a monthly fee, which generally covers, together with some copayments, health care services received from, or approved by, the member primary care physician. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. for the year ended december 31, 2009, commercial hmo premium revenues totaled approximately $3.0 billion, or 9.9% of our total premiums and aso fees. ppo our commercial ppo products, which are marketed primarily to employer groups and individuals, include some types of wellness and utilization management programs. however, they typically include more cost-sharing 8 table of contents with the member through copayments and annual deductibles. ppos also are similar to traditional health insurance because they provide a member with more freedom to choose a physician or other health care provider. in a ppo, the member is encouraged, through financial incentives, to use participating health care providers, which have contracted with the ppo to provide services at favorable rates. in the event a member chooses not to use a participating health care provider, the member may be required to pay a greater portion of the provider fees. as part of our ppo products, we offer humanaone, a major medical product marketed directly to individuals. we offer this product in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. this individual product includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. for the year ended december 31, 2009, employer and individual commercial ppo premium revenues totaled approximately $3.2 billion, or 10.5% of our total premiums and aso fees. aso we also offer aso products to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured ppo or hmo products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, most aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. for the year ended december 31, 2009, commercial aso fees totaled $373.4 million, or 1.2% of our total premiums and aso fees. specialty we also offer various specialty products, including dental, vision, and other supplemental products as well as disease management services under corphealth, inc. (d/b/a lifesynch) and mail-order pharmacy benefit administration services for our members under humana pharmacy, inc. (d/b/a right sourcerx sm ). during 2007, we made investments which significantly expanded our specialty product offerings with the acquisitions of compbenefits corporation and kmg america corporation. these acquisitions significantly increased our dental membership and added new product offerings, including vision and other supplemental health and life products. the supplemental health plans cover, for example, some of the costs associated with cancer and critical illness. other supplemental health products also include a closed block of approximately 36,000 long-term care policies acquired in connection with the kmg acquisition. no new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. at december 31, 2009, we had approximately 7.2 million specialty members, including 3.8 million dental members and 2.5 million vision members. for the year ended december 31, 2009, specialty product premiums and aso fees were approximately $942.3 million, or 3.1% of our total premiums and aso fees. 9 table of contents membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2009, by market and product: government commercial medicare advantage medicare stand-alone pdp medicaid military services ppo hmo aso total percent of total (in thousands) florida 377.9 82.0 51.8 104.4 160.0 81.3 857.4 8.3 % kentucky 59.3 41.1 116.3 41.7 525.8 784.2 7.6 % texas 96.2 172.5 165.6 152.0 125.9 712.2 6.9 % puerto rico 14.8 0.3 349.9 39.0 15.6 36.1 455.7 4.4 % illinois 72.1 54.0 137.1 70.0 94.8 428.0 4.2 % ohio 51.2 64.0 12.7 89.0 170.4 387.3 3.8 % wisconsin 50.5 40.4 63.6 52.9 170.8 378.2 3.7 % louisiana 79.6 28.3 39.6 30.4 133.8 311.7 3.0 % tennessee 68.7 54.3 62.8 18.7 65.5 270.0 2.6 % missouri/kansas 63.3 105.6 63.1 13.1 7.0 252.1 2.5 % georgia 41.9 51.6 8.3 91.2 36.2 229.2 2.2 % indiana 31.8 61.0 32.0 2.9 50.5 178.2 1.7 % michigan 34.8 62.5 40.0 5.9 143.2 1.4 % north carolina 63.5 69.6 8.0 141.1 1.4 % arizona 31.4 25.6 30.5 25.1 12.2 124.8 1.2 % virginia 51.5 63.5 3.3 118.3 1.2 % colorado 19.5 22.6 40.2 23.7 106.0 1.0 % california 7.3 95.8 1.2 104.3 1.0 % military services 1,756.0 1,756.0 17.1 % military services aso 1,278.4 1,278.4 12.5 % others 293.2 833.2 85.5 55.1 1,267.0 12.3 % totals 1,508.5 1,927.9 401.7 3,034.4 1,053.2 786.3 1,571.3 10,283.3 100.0 % provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care physicians, specialist physicians, dentists and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems and enrolling members into various disease management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care physician who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. our hospitalist programs use specially-trained physicians to effectively manage the entire range of an hmo member medical care during a hospital admission and to effectively coordinate the member discharge and post-discharge care. we have available a variety of disease management programs related to specific medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. 10 table of contents we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index or other nationally recognized inflation indexes. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. capitation for approximately 2.4% of our medical membership at december 31, 2009, we contract with hospitals and physicians to accept financial risk for a defined set of hmo membership. in transferring this risk, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to coordinate substantially all of the medical care for their capitated hmo membership, including some health benefit administrative functions and claims processing. for these capitated hmo arrangements, we generally agree to reimbursement rates that target a benefit ratio. the benefit ratio measures underwriting profitability and is computed by taking total benefit expenses as a percentage of premium revenues. providers participating in hospital-based capitated hmo arrangements generally receive a monthly payment for all of the services within their system for their hmo membership. providers participating in physician-based capitated hmo arrangements generally have subcontracted directly with hospitals and specialist physicians, and are responsible for reimbursing such hospitals and physicians for services rendered to their hmo membership. for approximately 5.7% of our medical membership at december 31, 2009, we contract with physicians under risk-sharing arrangements whereby physicians have assumed some level of risk for all or a portion of the medical costs of their hmo membership. although these arrangements do include physician capitation payments for services rendered, we share hospital and other benefit expenses and process substantially all of the claims under these arrangements. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. 11 table of contents medical membership under these various arrangements was as follows at december 31, 2009 and 2008: government segment commercial segment medicare advantage medicare stand-alone pdp military services military services aso medicaid total segment fully- insured aso total segment total medical medical membership: december 31, 2009 capitated hmo hospital system based 31,000 31,000 22,200 22,200 53,200 capitated hmo physician group based 50,200 117,600 167,800 26,300 26,300 194,100 risk-sharing 285,100 279,200 564,300 22,400 22,400 586,700 other 1,142,200 1,927,900 1,756,000 1,278,400 4,900 6,109,400 1,768,600 1,571,300 3,339,900 9,449,300 total 1,508,500 1,927,900 1,756,000 1,278,400 401,700 6,872,500 1,839,500 1,571,300 3,410,800 10,283,300 december 31, 2008 capitated hmo hospital system based 25,600 25,600 24,000 24,000 49,600 capitated hmo physician group based 48,400 146,500 194,900 27,500 27,500 222,400 risk-sharing 274,100 235,600 509,700 25,000 25,000 534,700 other 1,087,800 3,066,600 1,736,400 1,228,300 89,000 7,208,100 1,902,300 1,642,000 3,544,300 10,752,400 total 1,435,900 3,066,600 1,736,400 1,228,300 471,100 7,938,300 1,978,800 1,642,000 3,620,800 11,559,100 medical membership distribution: december 31, 2009 capitated hmo hospital system based 2.1 % 0.5 % 1.2 % 0.6 % 0.5 % capitated hmo physician group based 3.3 % 29.3 % 2.4 % 1.5 % 0.8 % 1.9 % risk-sharing 18.9 % 69.5 % 8.2 % 1.2 % 0.7 % 5.7 % all other membership 75.7 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 1.2 % 88.9 % 96.1 % 100.0 % 97.9 % 91.9 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % december 31, 2008 capitated hmo hospital system based 1.8 % 0.3 % 1.2 % 0.7 % 0.4 % capitated hmo physician group based 3.4 % 31.1 % 2.5 % 1.4 % 0.8 % 1.9 % risk-sharing 19.1 % 50.0 % 6.4 % 1.3 % 0.7 % 4.7 % all other membership 75.7 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 18.9 % 90.8 % 96.1 % 100.0 % 97.8 % 93.0 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % capitation expense as a percentage of total benefit expense was as follows for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007: 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) benefit expenses: capitated hmo expense $ 560,914 2.3 % $ 510,606 2.2 % $ 366,075 1.8 % other benefit expense 24,214,088 97.7 % 23,197,627 97.8 % 19,904,456 98.2 % consolidated benefit expense $ 24,775,002 100.0 % $ 23,708,233 100.0 % $ 20,270,531 100.0 % 12 table of contents accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies, as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. physicians participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating physicians includes verification of their medical licenses; review of their malpractice liability claims histories; review of their board certifications, if applicable; and review of applicable quality information. committees, composed of a peer group of physicians, review the applications of physicians being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our health plans from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care, and the utilization review accreditation commission, or urac. urac performs reviews for utilization management standards and for health plan and health network standards in quality management, credentialing, rights and responsibilities, and network management. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa performs reviews of our compliance with standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in all of our commercial hmo/pos markets except puerto rico, in all of our medicare hmo markets with the exception of illinois which will be surveyed in 2010, and for nearly all our ppo markets. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our medicare, medicaid, and commercial products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2009, we employed approximately 1,700 sales representatives, as well as approximately 900 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare products by making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we also market our medicare products via a strategic alliance with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart. this alliance includes stationing humana representatives in certain wal-mart stores, sam club locations, and neighborhood markets across the country providing an opportunity to enroll medicare eligible individuals in person. in addition, we market our medicare products through licensed independent brokers and agents including strategic alliances with state farm &reg; and united services automobile association, or usaa. commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure approved by cms. individuals become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer or group exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and 13 table of contents specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. we also offer commercial health insurance and specialty products directly to individuals. at december 31, 2009, we used licensed independent brokers and agents and approximately 1,200 licensed employees to sell our commercial products. many of our employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics including certain other incentives for our commercial brokers. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. underwriting through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determine the risk we are willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups must meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. small group laws in some states have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged based upon assessment of health conditions. underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos, including hmos and ppos owned by blue cross/blue shield plans. many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in the section entitled risk factors in this report. government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of all of the material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see the section entitled risk factors in this report. 14 table of contents other captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and both of our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, and customer service. employees as of december 31, 2009, we had approximately 28,100 employees, including 31 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, or if our estimates of benefit expenses are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefit expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. these estimates, however involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in payment patterns and medical cost trends. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services, including prescription drugs; increased cost of such services; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; possible changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including any that result from cms medicare advantage and medicare part d risk adjustment regulatory changes. in addition, we also estimate costs associated with long-duration insurance policies including life insurance, annuities, health, and long-term care policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. these future policy benefit reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal and maintenance expense assumptions from published actuarial tables, as modified based upon actual experience. the basis for the liability for future policy benefits is established at the time each contract is acquired and would 16 table of contents only change if our experience deteriorates to the point the level of the liability is not adequate to provide for future policy benefits. future policy benefits payable include $571.9 million at december 31, 2009 associated with a closed block of long-term care policies acquired in connection with the november 30, 2007 kmg acquisition. long-term care policies provide for long-duration coverage and, therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. the risk of a deviation of the actual morbidity and mortality rates from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care policies. we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care policies, and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. we filed and received approval for certain state premium rate increases in 2009 and continue to expect to file for premium rate increases for additional states in 2010. however, to the extent premium rate increases or loss experience vary from our acquisition date assumptions, future adjustments to reserves could be required. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program as well as in smart products and other consumer health plans, such as high deductible health plans with health savings accounts (hsas). we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract, including the possible termination of our tricare contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in the medicare business. our future performance depends in large part upon our management team ability to execute our strategy to position us for the future. this strategy includes opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare programs, including our hmo and ppo, as well as our stand-alone pdp products. we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. the expansion of our provider networks and our success in attracting members to our network-based products positions us well for changes in the medicare program that will effectively eliminate the non-network pffs plan option in 2011, although there can be no assurances that our pffs members will choose to move to our network-based products. we are continuing to implement various operational and strategic initiatives, including further developing our 17 table of contents networks and building network-based plan offerings to address the adequate network requirement. we anticipate these initiatives, together with certain counties exemption from the network requirement, to result in more than 95% of our pffs members having the choice of remaining in a humana plan in 2011. over the last few years we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we are offering both the stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plan with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer the medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare business is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare business in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in the medicare business. there is significant concentration of our revenues in the medicare business, with approximately 62% of our total premiums and aso fees in 2009 generated from our medicare business. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial segment business, with emphasis on our aso and individual products, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including our smart products and other consumer offerings such as hsas, and our specialty products such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, as well as the adoption of new technologies and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including outsourcing certain business functions, that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have been taking steps to reduce the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. 18 table of contents we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. our business plans also include becoming a quality e-business organization by enhancing interactions with customers, brokers, agents, providers and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology. our strategy includes sales and distribution of health benefit products through the internet, and implementation of advanced self-service capabilities, for internal and external stakeholders. there can be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our expanding operations, integrating new systems, protecting our proprietary information, and improving service levels will not be delayed or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are involved in various legal actions, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, securities laws claims, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers alleged malpractice; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; and claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of our insurance may not be 19 table of contents enough to cover the damages awarded. additionally, the cost of business insurance coverage has increased significantly. as a result, we have increased the amount of risk that we self-insure, particularly with respect to matters incidental to our business. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see legal proceedings in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these suits with certainty. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application, could increase our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition. in addition, as a government contractor, we are exposed to additional risks that may adversely affect our business or our willingness to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. our government segment accounted for approximately 75% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2009. these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2009, under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 377,900 medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 17% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2009. the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2009, our military services business, which accounted for approximately 12% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2009, primarily consisted of the tricare south region contract which covers approximately 3.0 million beneficiaries. the original 5-year south region contract expired march 31, 2009. through an amendment of solicitation/modification of contract to the tricare south region contract, an additional one-year option period, the sixth option period, which runs from april 1, 2009 through march 31, 2010, was exercised by the government. the amendment also provides for two additional six-month option periods: the seventh option period runs from april 1, 2010 through september 30, 2010 and the eighth option period runs from october 1, 2010 through march 31, 2011. exercise of each of the seventh and eighth option periods is at the government option. on december 16, 2009, we were notified by tma that it intends to exercise its options to extend the tricare south region contract for option period vii and option period viii. the exercise of these option periods would effectively extend the tricare south region contract through march 31, 2011. as required under the current contract, the target underwritten health care cost and underwriting fee amounts for each option period are negotiated. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount may have a material adverse effect on us. these changes may include an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to 20 table of contents enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. in the event government reimbursements were to decline from projected amounts, our failure to reduce the health care costs associated with these programs may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in july 2009, we were notified by the dod that we were not awarded the third generation tricare program contract for the south region which had been subject to competing bids. we filed a protest with the gao in connection with the award to another contractor citing discrepancies between the award criteria and procedures prescribed in the request for proposals issued by the dod and those that appear to have been used by the dod in making its contractor selection. in october 2009, we learned that the gao had upheld our protest, determining that the tma evaluation of our proposal had unreasonably failed to fully recognize and reasonably account for the likely cost savings associated with our record of obtaining network provider discounts from our established network in the south region. on december 22, 2009, we were advised that tma notified the gao of its intent to implement corrective action consistent with the discussion contained within the gao decision with respect to our protest. at this time, we are not able to determine what actions tma will take in response to recommendations by the gao, nor can we determine whether or not the protest decision by the gao will have any effect upon the ultimate disposition of the contract award. for 2009, premiums and aso fees associated with the tricare south region contract were $3.4 billion, or 11.2% of our total premiums and aso fees. we are continuing to evaluate issues associated with our military services businesses such as potential impairment of certain assets primarily consisting of goodwill, which had a carrying value of $49.8 million at december 31, 2009, potential exit costs, possible asset sales, and a strategic assessment of ancillary businesses. goodwill was not impaired at december 31, 2009. at december 31, 2009, under our contracts with the puerto rico health insurance administration, or prhia, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 349,900 medicaid members in puerto rico. these contracts accounted for approximately 2% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2009. our medicaid contracts with the prhia for the east and southeast regions were extended through december 31, 2009 with no change in terms. the prhia has confirmed its intention to extend the current contracts until june 30, 2010, with no changes in terms and is in the process of executing such extensions. the loss of these contracts or significant changes in the puerto rico medicaid program as a result of legislative action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. cms utilizes a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare advantage plans according to health severity. a risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all medicare advantage plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk adjusted premium payment to medicare advantage plans. cms is continuing to perform audits of selected medicare advantage plans of various companies to validate the provider coding practices and resulting economics under the actuarial risk-adjustment model used to calculate the individual member capitation paid to medicare advantage plans. several humana contracts have been selected by cms for audit and we expect that cms will continue conducting audits for the 2007 contract year and beyond. we are unable to estimate the financial impact of any audits that may be conducted related to 2007 revenue and beyond and whether any findings 21 table of contents would cause a change to our method of estimating future premium revenue in bid submissions made to cms for future contract years, or compromise premium rate assumptions made in our bids for prior contract years. at this time, we do not know whether cms will require payment adjustments to be made using an audit methodology without comparison to original medicare coding, and using its method of extrapolating findings to the entire contract. however, if cms requires payment adjustments to be made using an audit methodology without comparison to original medicare coding, and using a method of extrapolating findings to the entire contract, and if we are unable to obtain any relief preventing the payment adjustments from being implemented, we believe that such adjustments would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the president of the united states and members of the u.s. congress have proposed significant reforms to the u.s. health care system. in november 2009, the u.s. house of representatives passed the affordable health care for america act and in december 2009 the u.s. senate passed the patient protection and affordable care act, which we refer to collectively as the acts . while there are significant differences between the two acts, they include, for example, limiting medicare advantage payment rates, mandatory issuance of insurance coverage, requirements that would limit the ability of health plans and insurers to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, stipulating annual rebates to enrollees if the amount of premium revenues expended on medical costs falls below prescribed ratios for group and individual health insurance coverage, and imposing new non-deductible taxes on health insurers increasing in the aggregate from $2 billion to $10 billion annually over ten years. in addition, certain members of congress have proposed a single-payer health care system, a government health insurance option to compete with private plans, and other expanded public health care measures. various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. because of the unsettled nature of these initiatives and the numerous steps required to implement them, we cannot predict what health insurance initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on our business. however, legislative changes, if enacted, may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, including lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible excise tax, financial position, including goodwill recoverability, and cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premium revenues related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. beginning in 2008, the risk corridor thresholds increased which means we bear more risk. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net payable of $144.6 million at december 31, 2009. reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms portion of claims costs which exceed the member out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the year. 22 table of contents settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment as a low-income or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. in addition, the health care industry in general and health insurance, particularly hmos and ppos, are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation: medicare improvements for patients and providers act of 2008 the enactment of the medicare improvements for patients and providers act of 2008, or mippa, in july 2008 could affect our medicare operations. principally, beginning in 2011 sponsors of medicare advantage pffs plans will be required to contract with providers to establish adequate networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. additionally, mippa prohibits several different kinds of marketing activities by medicare plan sponsors and their brokers, and will phase out indirect medical education, or ime, costs beginning in 2010. we are continuing to implement various operational and strategic initiatives that are intended to answer the challenges presented by mippa. in addition, most of our pffs enrollees reside in geographies where we have developed a provider network and offer a networked plan. we will continue to develop our networks and build network-based plan offerings to address the adequate network requirement. we anticipate these initiatives, together with certain counties exemption from the network requirement, to result in more than 95% of our pffs members having the choice of remaining in a humana plan in 2011. nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement those initiatives. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans). on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, the arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to the u.s. department of health 23 table of contents and human services in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business associates to comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa provisions and requires the u.s. department of health and human services to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. we will continue to assess the impact of these regulations on us as they are issued. state regulation laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate formulas, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. certain of our subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, or other cash transfers to humana inc., our parent company, and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. although minimum required levels of equity are largely based on premium volume, product mix, and the quality of assets held, minimum requirements can vary significantly at the state level. based on the statutory financial statements as of december 31, 2009, we maintained aggregate statutory capital and surplus of $3.6 billion in our state regulated subsidiaries, $1.2 billion above the aggregate $2.4 billion in applicable statutory requirements which would trigger any regulatory action by the respective states. other investigations we are also subject to various governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. any failure to manage administrative costs could hamper profitability. the level of our administrative expenses impacts our profitability. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage such expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, additional investment in new 24 table of contents products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs), greater emphasis on small group and individual health insurance products, acquisitions, and implementation of regulatory requirements may occur from time to time. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contain our administrative expenses in line with our membership and this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. in 2008, we acquired unitedhealth group las vegas, nevada individual securehorizons medicare advantage hmo business, osf health plans, inc., metcare health plans, inc., and php companies, inc. (d/b/a cariten healthcare), and in late 2007, we acquired kmg america corporation and compbenefits corporation. the failure to successfully integrate these entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of the acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. we may also be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. these providers may share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care physicians for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month fee under which physicians are paid an amount to provide all required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a 25 table of contents primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our pharmacy business, opened in 2006, competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, and internet companies as well as other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state board of pharmacy. in addition, some states have proposed laws to regulate online pharmacies, and we may be subject to this legislation if it is passed. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations. pharmacies must register with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-services pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose our pharmacy subsidiary to civil and criminal penalties. changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. recent events have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. the doj is currently conducting, and the u.s. house of representatives commerce committee has conducted, an investigation into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our mail-order pharmacy business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 26 table of contents if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our mail-order and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries is restricted. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. these subsidiaries generally are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from our parent company. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts, or, in some states, any amount. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our 7.20% and 8.15% senior notes are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the notes are downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) and contain a change of control provision that may require us to purchase the notes under certain circumstances. in addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under recent regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. 27 table of contents we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would increase, our sales and earnings could decrease and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. changes in economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the u.s. economy continues to experience a period of recession and increased unemployment. we have closely monitored the impact that this volatile economy is having on our commercial segment operations. workforce reductions have caused corresponding membership losses in our fully-insured group business. continued weakness in the u.s. economy, and any resulting increases in unemployment, may materially adversely affect our commercial medical membership, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. additionally, the continued weakness of the u.s. economy may adversely affect the budget of individual states and of the federal government. that could result in attempts to reduce payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military services, and medicaid programs, and could result in an increase in taxes and assessments on our activities. although we could attempt to mitigate or cover our exposure from such increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to mitigate or cover all of such costs which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in addition, general inflationary pressures may affect the costs of medical and other care, increasing the costs of claims expenses submitted to us. the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than- temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures in the foreseeable future, and to refinance or repay debt. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. 28 table of contents our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. given the current economic climate, our stock and the stocks of other companies in the insurance industry may be increasingly subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. over the past two years, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility. company-specific issues and market developments generally in the insurance industry and in the regulatory environment may have caused this volatility. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to materially fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: the potential for health care reform; general economic conditions; quarterly variations in operating results; natural disasters, terrorist attacks and epidemics; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; press releases or negative publicity relating to our competitors or us or relating to trends in our markets; regulatory changes and adverse outcomes from litigation and government or regulatory investigations; sales of stock by insiders; changes in our credit ratings; limitations on premium levels or the ability to raise premiums on existing policies; increases in minimum capital, reserves, and other financial strength requirements; and limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock. these factors could materially reduce our stock price. in addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. until october 7, 2008, we exchanged the fixed interest rate under all of our senior notes for a variable interest rate based on libor using interest rate swap agreements. as a result, changes in interest rates generally resulted in an increase or decrease to investment income partially offset by a corresponding decrease or increase to interest expense, partially hedging our exposure to interest rate risk. however, due to extreme volatility in the securities and credit markets, libor increased while the interest rate we would earn on invested assets like cash and cash equivalents decreased. as a result, we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements, fixing the average interest rate under our senior notes at 6.08%. in exchange for terminating our rights under the interest rate swap agreements, we received $93.0 million in cash from the counterparties representing the fair value of the swap assets. we may re-enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either a fixed rate or floating rate based on libor plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2009 and $250.0 million in borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2008. interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with an average s&amp;p credit rating of aa+ at december 31, 2009. our net unrealized position improved $301.3 million from a net unrealized loss position of $229.9 million at december 31, 2008 to a net unrealized gain position of $71.4 million at december 31, 2009. as of december 31, 2009, we had gross unrealized losses of $78.4 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates and tighter 66 table of contents liquidity conditions in the current markets than when the securities were purchased, and as such, there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2009. while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 3.8 years as of december 31, 2009. based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $340 million. we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200 and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness as of december 31, 2009 and 2008. our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may effect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points twice, have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points four times and have changed by less than 100 basis points four times. increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in thousands) as of december 31, 2009 investment income $ (24,993 ) $ (17,443 ) $ (15,075 ) $ 36,729 $ 68,447 $ 101,142 interest expense(a) pretax $ (24,993 ) $ (17,443 ) $ (15,075 ) $ 36,729 $ 68,447 $ 101,142 as of december 31, 2008 investment income $ (23,748 ) $ (17,588 ) $ (15,483 ) $ 25,773 $ 47,625 $ 70,225 interest expense 2,128 2,128 2,128 (2,128 ) (4,256 ) (6,384 ) pretax $ (21,620 ) $ (15,460 ) $ (13,355 ) $ 23,645 $ 43,369 $ 63,841 (a) there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2009. 67 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. health insurance reform in march 2010, the president signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health insurance reform legislation) which enact significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. there are many significant provisions of the legislation that will require additional guidance and clarification in 3 table of contents the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business, which we expect to occur over the next several years. certain significant provisions of the health insurance reform legislation include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to medicare advantage premiums, the establishment of state-based exchanges, and an annual insurance industry premium-based assessment. implementation dates of the health insurance reform legislation vary from as early as six months from the date of enactment, or september 30, 2010, to as late as 2018. the health insurance reform legislation is discussed more fully beginning on page 40. business segments we manage our business with two segments: government and commercial. the government segment consists of beneficiaries of government benefit programs, and includes three lines of business: medicare, military, and medicaid. the commercial segment consists of members enrolled in our medical and specialty products marketed to employer groups and individuals. when identifying our segments, we aggregated products with similar economic characteristics. these characteristics include the nature of customer groups as well as pricing, benefits, and underwriting requirements. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer. the results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. we allocate all selling, general and administrative expenses, investment and other revenue, interest expense, and goodwill, but no other assets or liabilities, to our segments. members served by our two segments often utilize the same provider networks, in some instances enabling us to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. our segments also share indirect overhead costs and assets. as a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. 4 table of contents our products as more fully described in the products discussion that follows, we provide health insurance benefits under health maintenance organization, or hmo, private fee-for-service, or pffs, and preferred provider organization, or ppo, plans. on january 1, 2011, most of our members enrolled in pffs plans transitioned to networked-based ppo type plans. in addition, we provide other benefits with our specialty products including dental, vision, and other supplementary benefits. the following table presents our segment membership at december 31, 2010, and premiums and administrative services only, or aso, fees by product for the year ended december 31, 2010: medical membership specialty membership premiums aso fees total premiums and aso fees percent of total premiums and aso fees (dollars in thousands) government: medicare advantage: hmo 638,200 0 $ 8,288,434 $ 0 $ 8,288,434 25.0 % ppo 648,400 0 6,277,358 0 6,277,358 18.9 % pffs 447,200 0 4,720,329 0 4,720,329 14.2 % total medicare advantage 1,733,800 0 19,286,121 0 19,286,121 58.1 % medicare aso 28,200 0 0 16,111 16,111 0.0 % medicare stand-alone pdp 1,758,800 0 2,320,060 0 2,320,060 7.0 % total medicare 3,520,800 0 21,606,181 16,111 21,622,292 65.1 % medicaid insured 572,400 0 723,563 0 723,563 2.2 % military services insured 1,755,200 0 3,462,544 0 3,462,544 10.4 % military services aso 1,272,600 0 0 99,081 99,081 0.3 % total military services 3,027,800 0 3,462,544 99,081 3,561,625 10.7 % total government 7,121,000 0 25,792,288 115,192 25,907,480 78.0 % commercial: fully-insured: ppo 1,013,900 0 2,887,860 0 2,887,860 8.7 % hmo 649,500 0 3,026,182 0 3,026,182 9.1 % total fully-insured 1,663,400 0 5,914,042 0 5,914,042 17.8 % aso 1,453,600 0 0 376,513 376,513 1.1 % specialty 0 7,076,100 1,005,993 16,539 1,022,532 3.1 % total commercial 3,117,000 7,076,100 6,920,035 393,052 7,313,087 22.0 % total 10,238,000 7,076,100 $ 32,712,323 $ 508,244 $ 33,220,567 100.0 % our government segment products medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 20 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. the resulting growing membership base provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care, including cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes that result in living healthier. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of 5 table of contents health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under original medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as original medicare. as an alternative to original medicare, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under original medicare. our medicare advantage plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and pffs plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. medicare advantage products may be sold to individuals or on a group basis. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of original medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, disease management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between november 15 and december 31 for coverage that begins january 1. beginning in 2011, individuals may enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on january 1, 2012. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations, hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in most cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. our medicare pffs plans generally have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to original medicare payment rates. on january 1, 2011, most of our members enrolled in pffs plans transitioned to networked-based ppo type products due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits). cms transitioned to this risk-based payment model while the old payment model based on 6 table of contents demographic data including gender, age, and disability status was phased out. the phase-in of risk adjusted payment was completed in 2007. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. at december 31, 2010, we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 1,762,000 medicare advantage members for which we received premium and aso fees revenues of approximately $19.3 billion, or 58.1%, of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2010. under our medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 378,700 members. these contracts accounted for premium revenues of approximately $5.5 billion, which represented approximately 28.5% of our medicare advantage premium revenues, or 16.5% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2010. our hmo, ppo, and pffs products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage business have been renewed for 2011. medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between november 15 and december 31 for coverage that begins january 1. beginning in 2011, individuals may enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on january 1, 2012. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. in october 2010, we announced the lowest premium national stand-alone medicare part d prescription drug plan co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., the humana walmart-preferred rx plan, to be offered for the 2011 plan year. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described beginning on page 68. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a one-year term each december 31 unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp business have been renewed for 2011. medicare stand-alone pdp premium revenues were approximately $2.3 billion, or 7.0% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2010. medicaid product medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to facilitate the delivery of health care services primarily to low-income residents. each electing state develops, through a state-specific regulatory agency, a medicaid managed care initiative that must be approved by cms. cms requires that medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. states currently either use a formal proposal process in which they review many bidders before selecting one or award individual contracts to qualified bidders who apply for entry to the program. in either case, the contractual relationship with a state generally is for a one-year period. under these contracts, we receive a fixed monthly payment from a government agency for which we are required to provide health insurance coverage to enrolled members. due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a managed care product in their medicaid programs. 7 table of contents our medicaid business, which accounted for premium revenues of approximately $723.6 million, or 2.2%, of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2010, consists of contracts in puerto rico and florida, with the vast majority in puerto rico. military services under our tricare south region contract with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide health insurance coverage to the dependents of active duty military personnel and to retired military personnel and their dependents. currently, three health benefit options are available to tricare beneficiaries. in addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in a hmo-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a ppo. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the department of defense. our current tricare south region contract, which we were awarded in 2003, covers approximately 3.0 million eligible beneficiaries as of december 31, 2010 in florida, georgia, south carolina, mississippi, alabama, tennessee, louisiana, arkansas, texas, and oklahoma. the south region is one of the three regions in the united states as defined by the department of defense. of these eligible beneficiaries, 1.3 million were tricare aso members representing active duty beneficiaries and seniors over the age of 65 for which the department of defense retains all of the risk of financing the cost of their health benefit. we have subcontracted with third parties to provide selected administration and specialty services under the contract. the original 5-year south region contract expired on march 31, 2009 and was extended through march 31, 2011. on october 5, 2010, we were notified that the department of defense tricare management activity, or tma, intended to negotiate with us for an extension of our administration of the tricare south region contract, and on january 6, 2011, an amendment of solicitation/modification of contract to the tricare south region contract, in the form of an undefinitized contract action, became effective. the amendment adds one additional one-year option period, option period ix (which runs from april 1, 2011 through march 31, 2012). the amendment does not include the costs of the underwritten target health care cost and underwritten health care target fee, which will be negotiated separately. on january 21, 2011, the tma notified us of their intent to exercise option period ix. as required under the current contract, the target underwritten health care cost and underwriting fee amounts for option period ix will be negotiated separately. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount may have a material adverse effect on us. these changes may include an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. in july 2009, we were notified by the department of defense that we were not awarded the third generation tricare program contract for the south region which had been subject to competing bids. we filed a protest with the government accountability office, or gao, in connection with the award to another contractor citing discrepancies between the award criteria and procedures prescribed in the request for proposals issued by the dod and those that appear to have been used by the dod in making its contractor selection. in october 2009, we learned that the gao had upheld our protest, determining that the tma evaluation of our proposal had unreasonably failed to fully recognize and reasonably account for the likely cost savings associated with our record of obtaining network provider discounts from our established network in the south region. on december 22, 2009, we were advised that tma notified the gao of its intent to implement corrective action consistent with the discussion contained within the gao decision with respect to our protest. on october 22, 2010, tma issued its latest amendment to the request for proposal requesting from offerors final proposal revisions to address, among other things, health care cost savings resulting from provider network discounts in the south region. we submitted our final proposal revisions on november 9, 2010. at this time, we are not able to determine whether or not the protest decision by the gao will have any effect upon the ultimate disposition of the contract award. 8 table of contents for the year ended december 31, 2010, military services premium revenues were approximately $3.5 billion, or 10.4% of our total premiums and aso fees, and military services aso fees totaled $99.1 million, or 0.3% of our total premiums and aso fees. the tricare south region contract represents approximately 96% of total military services premiums and aso fees. our commercial segment products we offer medical and specialty benefits, including primary and workplace care through our medical centers and worksite medical facilities, to employer groups and individuals in the commercial market. our commercial medical products offered as hmo, ppo or aso, are more fully described in the following sections, include offerings designed to promote wellness and engage consumers. hmo our commercial hmo products provide prepaid health insurance coverage to our members through a network of independent primary care physicians, specialty physicians, and other health care providers who contract with the hmo to furnish such services. primary care physicians generally include internists, family practitioners, and pediatricians. generally, the member primary care physician must approve access to certain specialty physicians and other health care providers. these other health care providers include hospitals, nursing homes, home health agencies, pharmacies, mental health and substance abuse centers, diagnostic centers, optometrists, outpatient surgery centers, dentists, urgent care centers, and durable medical equipment suppliers. because the primary care physician generally must approve access to many of these other health care providers, the hmo product is considered the most restrictive form of a health benefit plan. an hmo member, typically through the member employer, pays a monthly fee, which generally covers, together with some copayments, health care services received from, or approved by, the member primary care physician. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. for the year ended december 31, 2010, commercial hmo premium revenues totaled approximately $3.0 billion, or 9.1% of our total premiums and aso fees. ppo our commercial ppo products, which are marketed primarily to employer groups and individuals, include some types of wellness and utilization management programs. however, they typically include more cost-sharing with the member through copayments and annual deductibles. ppos also are similar to traditional health insurance because they provide a member with more freedom to choose a physician or other health care provider. in a ppo, the member is encouraged, through financial incentives, to use participating health care providers, which have contracted with the ppo to provide services at favorable rates. in the event a member chooses not to use a participating health care provider, the member may be required to pay a greater portion of the provider fees. as part of our ppo products, we offer humanaone, a major medical product marketed directly to individuals. we offer this product in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. this individual product includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. for the year ended december 31, 2010, employer and individual commercial ppo premium revenues totaled approximately $2.9 billion, or 8.7% of our total premiums and aso fees. 9 table of contents aso we also offer aso products to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured ppo or hmo products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, most aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. for the year ended december 31, 2010, commercial aso fees totaled $376.5 million, or 1.1% of our total premiums and aso fees. specialty we also offer various specialty products and services, including dental, vision, and other supplemental products as well as disease management services under corphealth, inc. (d/b/a lifesynch), mail-order pharmacy benefit administration services for our members under humana pharmacy, inc. (d/b/a right sourcerx sm ), and patient services under concentra inc. during 2007, we made investments which significantly expanded our specialty product offerings with the acquisitions of compbenefits corporation and kmg america corporation. these acquisitions significantly increased our dental membership and added new product offerings, including vision and other supplemental health and life products. the supplemental health plans cover, for example, some of the costs associated with cancer and critical illness. other supplemental health products also include a closed block of approximately 36,000 long-term care policies acquired in connection with the kmg acquisition. no new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. as a result of our december 21, 2010 acquisition of concentra inc., we provide patient services including primary and workplace care through our over 300 medical centers and 240 worksite medical facilities. at december 31, 2010, we had approximately 7.1 million specialty members, including 3.9 million dental members and 2.2 million vision members. for the year ended december 31, 2010, specialty product premiums and aso fees were approximately $1,022.5 million, or 3.1% of our total premiums and aso fees. 10 table of contents membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2010, by market and product: government commercial medicare advantage medicare aso medicare stand- alone pdp medicaid military services ppo hmo aso total percent of total (in thousands) kentucky 64.7 0 113.0 0 0 99.3 37.3 531.4 845.7 8.3 % florida 378.7 0 73.7 53.6 0 95.9 164.5 66.6 833.0 8.1 % texas 103.0 0 148.4 0 0 159.3 127.9 110.7 649.3 6.3 % puerto rico 18.6 0 0.2 518.8 0 37.6 12.7 34.8 622.7 6.1 % ohio 170.4 0 53.3 0 0 16.4 52.5 178.7 471.3 4.6 % illinois 65.1 28.2 51.2 0 0 144.3 67.1 101.2 457.1 4.6 % wisconsin 52.1 0 34.1 0 0 62.0 40.4 143.4 332.0 3.2 % tennessee 73.9 0 48.7 0 0 43.1 19.9 118.0 303.6 3.0 % missouri/kansas 68.4 0 90.9 0 0 57.0 10.1 9.7 236.1 2.3 % georgia 47.0 0 34.9 0 0 24.7 67.5 41.7 215.8 2.1 % louisiana 89.5 0 24.7 0 0 33.4 24.0 20.1 191.7 1.9 % indiana 41.4 0 49.6 0 0 27.1 2.3 55.8 176.2 1.7 % michigan 36.6 0 55.2 0 0 35.9 0 4.9 132.6 1.3 % north carolina 58.8 0 59.6 0 0 6.5 0 0 124.9 1.2 % arizona 35.4 0 25.5 0 0 30.2 14.9 11.3 117.3 1.1 % virginia 53.9 0 53.8 0 0 3.3 0 0 111.0 1.1 % military services 0 0 0 0 1,755.2 0 0 0 1,755.2 17.1 % military services aso 0 0 0 0 1,272.6 0 0 0 1,272.6 12.4 % others 376.3 0 842.0 0 0 137.9 8.4 25.3 1,389.9 13.6 % totals 1,733.8 28.2 1,758.8 572.4 3,027.8 1,013.9 649.5 1,453.6 10,238.0 100.0 % provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care physicians, specialist physicians, dentists and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems and enrolling members into various disease management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care physician who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. our hospitalist programs use specially-trained physicians to effectively manage the entire range of an hmo member medical care during a hospital admission and to effectively coordinate the member discharge and post-discharge care. we have available a variety of disease management programs related to 11 table of contents specific medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index or other nationally recognized inflation indexes. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. capitation for approximately 1.0% of our medical membership at december 31, 2010, we contract with hospitals and physicians to accept financial risk for a defined set of hmo membership. in transferring this risk, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to coordinate substantially all of the medical care for their capitated hmo membership, including some health benefit administrative functions and claims processing. for these capitated hmo arrangements, we generally agree to reimbursement rates that target a benefit ratio. the benefit ratio measures underwriting profitability and is computed by taking total benefit expenses as a percentage of premium revenues. providers participating in hospital-based capitated hmo arrangements generally receive a monthly payment for all of the services within their system for their hmo membership. providers participating in physician-based capitated hmo arrangements generally have subcontracted directly with hospitals and specialist physicians, and are responsible for reimbursing such hospitals and physicians for services rendered to their hmo membership. for approximately 8.9% of our medical membership at december 31, 2010, we contract with physicians under risk-sharing arrangements whereby physicians have assumed some level of risk for all or a portion of the medical costs of their hmo membership. although these arrangements do include physician capitation payments for services rendered, we share hospital and other benefit expenses and process substantially all of the claims under these arrangements. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. 12 table of contents medical membership under these various arrangements was as follows at december 31, 2010 and 2009: government segment commercial segment medicare advantage and medicare aso medicare stand-alone pdp military services military services aso medicaid total segment fully- insured aso total segment total medical medical membership: december 31, 2010 capitated hmo hospital system based 13,900 0 0 0 0 13,900 20,800 0 20,800 34,700 capitated hmo physician group based 44,800 0 0 0 0 44,800 25,200 0 25,200 70,000 risk-sharing 322,800 0 0 0 564,600 887,400 23,300 0 23,300 910,700 other 1,380,500 1,758,800 1,755,200 1,272,600 7,800 6,174,900 1,594,100 1,453,600 3,047,700 9,222,600 total 1,762,000 1,758,800 1,755,200 1,272,600 572,400 7,121,000 1,663,400 1,453,600 3,117,000 10,238,000 december 31, 2009 capitated hmo hospital system based 31,000 0 0 0 0 31,000 22,200 0 22,200 53,200 capitated hmo physician group based 50,200 0 0 0 117,600 167,800 26,300 0 26,300 194,100 risk-sharing 285,100 0 0 0 279,200 564,300 22,400 0 22,400 586,700 other 1,142,200 1,927,900 1,756,000 1,278,400 4,900 6,109,400 1,768,600 1,571,300 3,339,900 9,449,300 total 1,508,500 1,927,900 1,756,000 1,278,400 401,700 6,872,500 1,839,500 1,571,300 3,410,800 10,283,300 december 31, 2010 capitated hmo hospital system based 0.8 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.2 % 1.3 % 0.0 % 0.7 % 0.3 % capitated hmo physician group based 2.5 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.6 % 1.5 % 0.0 % 0.8 % 0.7 % risk-sharing 18.3 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 98.6 % 12.5 % 1.4 % 0.0 % 0.7 % 8.9 % all other membership 78.4 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 1.4 % 86.7 % 95.8 % 100.0 % 97.8 % 90.1 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % december 31, 2009 capitated hmo hospital system based 2.1 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.5 % 1.2 % 0.0 % 0.6 % 0.5 % capitated hmo physician group based 3.3 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 29.3 % 2.4 % 1.5 % 0.0 % 0.8 % 1.9 % risk-sharing 18.9 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 69.5 % 8.2 % 1.2 % 0.0 % 0.7 % 5.7 % all other membership 75.7 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 1.2 % 88.9 % 96.1 % 100.0 % 97.9 % 91.9 % total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % capitation expense as a percentage of total benefit expense was as follows for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands) benefit expenses: capitated hmo expense $ 565,102 2.1 % $ 560,914 2.3 % $ 510,606 2.2 % other benefit expense 26,522,772 97.9 % 24,214,088 97.7 % 23,197,627 97.8 % consolidated benefit expense $ 27,087,874 100.0 % $ 24,775,002 100.0 % $ 23,708,233 100.0 % 13 table of contents accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies, as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. physicians participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating physicians includes verification of their medical licenses; review of their malpractice liability claims histories; review of their board certifications, if applicable; and review of applicable quality information. committees, composed of a peer group of physicians, review the applications of physicians being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care, and the utilization review accreditation commission, or urac. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa performs reviews of our compliance with standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in all of our commercial, medicare and medicaid hmo/pos markets with enough history and membership, except puerto rico, and for many of our ppo markets. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our medicare, medicaid, and commercial products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2010, we employed approximately 1,800 sales representatives, as well as approximately 800 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare products by making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we also market our medicare products via a strategic alliance with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart. this alliance includes stationing humana representatives in certain wal-mart stores, sam club locations, and neighborhood markets across the country providing an opportunity to enroll medicare eligible individuals in person. in addition, we market our medicare products through licensed independent brokers and agents including strategic alliances with state farm &reg; and united services automobile association, or usaa. finally, we sell group medicare advantage products through large employers, including via an alliance with cigna corporation. under the terms of the alliance, we and cigna coordinate services and share financial results. commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure approved by cms. individuals become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer or group exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and 14 table of contents expectations of their employees or members. we also offer commercial health insurance and specialty products directly to individuals. at december 31, 2010, we used licensed independent brokers and agents and approximately 1,100 licensed employees to sell our commercial insurance products. many of our employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics including certain other incentives for our commercial brokers. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. underwriting through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determine the risk we are willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups must meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. small group laws in some states have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged based upon assessment of health conditions. underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos, including hmos and ppos owned by blue cross/blue shield plans. many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in the section entitled risk factors in this report. government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of all of the material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see the section entitled risk factors in this report. other captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and 15 table of contents general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and both of our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, and customer service. employees as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately 35,200 employees, including approximately 1,900 medical professionals working at the concentra medical centers and 34 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, or if our estimates of benefit expenses are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefit expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. these estimates, however involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in payment patterns and medical cost trends. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services, including prescription drugs; increased cost of such services; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including any that result from cms medicare advantage and medicare part d risk adjustment regulatory changes or health insurance reform legislation. in addition, we also estimate costs associated with long-duration insurance policies including life insurance, annuities, health, and long-term care policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. these future policy benefit reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal and maintenance expense assumptions from published actuarial tables, as modified based upon actual experience. 17 table of contents the assumptions used to determine the liability for future policy benefits are established and locked in at the time each contract is acquired and would only change if our expected future experience deteriorated to the point that the level of the liability, together with the present value of future gross premiums, are not adequate to provide for future expected policy benefits. future policy benefits payable include $824.6 million at december 31, 2010 associated with a closed block of long-term care policies acquired in connection with the november 30, 2007 kmg america corporation acquisition. long-term care policies provide for long-duration coverage and, therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. the risk of a deviation of the actual morbidity and mortality rates from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care policies. we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care policies, and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. however, to the extent premium rate increases or loss experience vary from our acquisition date assumptions, additional future adjustments to reserves could be required. during the fourth quarter of 2010, certain states approved premium rate increases for a large portion of our long-term care block that were significantly below our acquisition date assumptions. based on these actions by the states, combined with lower interest rates and higher actual expenses as compared to acquisition date assumptions, we determined that our existing future policy benefits payable, together with the present value of future gross premiums, associated with our long-term care policies were not adequate to provide for future policy benefits under these policies; therefore we unlocked and modified our assumptions based on current expectations. accordingly, during the fourth quarter of 2010 we recorded $138.9 million of additional benefit expense, with a corresponding increase in future policy benefits payable of $170.3 million partially offset by a related reinsurance recoverable of $31.4 million included in other long-term assets. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program. we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract, including the possible termination of our tricare south region contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. 18 table of contents if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in the medicare business. our future performance depends in large part upon our management team ability to execute our strategy to position us for the future. this strategy includes opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare programs, including our hmo and ppo products, as well as our stand-alone pdp products. we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. over the last few years we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we are offering both the stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plan with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer the medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare business is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare business in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in the medicare business. there is significant concentration of our revenues in the medicare business, with approximately 65% of our total premiums and aso fees in 2010 generated from our medicare business. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial segment business, with emphasis on our aso and individual products, introduction of new products and benefit designs, expansion of our specialty products such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, the adoption of new technologies, development of adjacent businesses, and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts, including the 2010 acquisition of concentra inc. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including outsourcing certain business functions, that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, or to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have been taking steps to reduce the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. 19 table of contents we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. our business plans also include becoming a quality e-business organization by enhancing interactions with customers, brokers, agents, providers and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology. our strategy includes sales and distribution of health benefit products through the internet, and implementation of advanced self-service capabilities, for internal and external stakeholders. there can be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our expanding operations, integrating new systems, protecting our proprietary information, and improving service levels will not be delayed or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business may be materially adversely impacted by cms adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses. cms has adopted a new coding set for diagnoses, commonly known as icd-10, which significantly expands the number of codes utilized. the new coding set is currently required to be implemented by october 1, 2013. we may be required to incur significant expenses in implementing the new coding set. if we do not adequately implement the new coding set, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. we are involved in various legal actions, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are or may become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, securities laws claims, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; 20 table of contents medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers alleged malpractice; claims arising from any adverse medical consequences resulting from our recommendations about the appropriateness of providers proposed medical treatment plans for patients; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy; and professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public, including urgent care. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. additionally, the cost of business insurance coverage has increased significantly. as a result, we have increased the amount of risk that we self-insure, particularly with respect to matters incidental to our business. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these suits with certainty. as a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. our government segment accounted for approximately 78% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2010. these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2010, under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 378,700 medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 17% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2010. the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in 21 table of contents member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2010, our military services business, which accounted for approximately 11% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2010, primarily consisted of the tricare south region contract which covers approximately 3.0 million beneficiaries. the original 5-year south region contract expired on march 31, 2009 and was extended through march 31, 2011. on october 5, 2010, we were notified that the department of defense tricare management activity, or tma, intended to negotiate with us for an extension of our administration of the tricare south region contract, and on january 6, 2011, an amendment of solicitation/modification of contract to the tricare south region contract, in the form of an undefinitized contract action, became effective. the amendment adds one additional one-year option period, option period ix (which runs from april 1, 2011 through march 31, 2012). on january 21, 2011, the tma notified us of their intent to exercise option period ix. as required under the current contract, the target underwritten health care cost and underwriting fee amounts for option period ix will be negotiated separately. any variance from the target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount may have a material adverse effect on us. these changes may include an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. in the event government reimbursements were to decline from projected amounts, our failure to reduce the health care costs associated with these programs may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in july 2009, we were notified by the dod that we were not awarded the third generation tricare program contract for the south region which had been subject to competing bids. we filed a protest with the gao in connection with the award to another contractor citing discrepancies between the award criteria and procedures prescribed in the request for proposals issued by the dod and those that appear to have been used by the dod in making its contractor selection. in october 2009, we learned that the gao had upheld our protest, determining that the tma evaluation of our proposal had unreasonably failed to fully recognize and reasonably account for the likely cost savings associated with our record of obtaining network provider discounts from our established network in the south region. on december 22, 2009, we were advised that tma notified the gao of its intent to implement corrective action consistent with the discussion contained within the gao decision with respect to our protest. on october 22, 2010, tma issued its latest amendment to the request for proposal requesting from offerors final proposal revisions to address, among other things, health care cost savings resulting from provider network discounts in the south region. we submitted our final proposal revisions on november 9, 2010. at this time, we are not able to determine whether or not the protest decision by the gao will have any effect upon the ultimate disposition of the contract award. for the year ended december 31, 2010, premiums and aso fees associated with the tricare south region contract were $3.4 billion, or 10.3% of our total premiums and aso fees. we are continuing to evaluate issues associated with our military services businesses such as potential impairment of certain assets primarily consisting of goodwill, which had a carrying value of $49.8 million at december 31, 2010, potential exit costs, possible asset sales, and a strategic assessment of ancillary businesses. goodwill was not impaired at december 31, 2010. if our current contract is extended through march 31, 2012 and we are not ultimately awarded the new third generation tricare program contract for the south region, we expect that as the march 31, 2012 contract end date nears, future cash flows will not be sufficient to warrant recoverability of all or a portion of the military services goodwill. in this event, we expect a goodwill impairment would occur during the second half of 2011. at december 31, 2010, under our contracts with the puerto rico health insurance administration, or prhia, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 518,800 medicaid members in puerto 22 table of contents rico. these contracts accounted for approximately 2% of our total premiums and aso fees for the year ended december 31, 2010. effective october 1, 2010, the prhia awarded us three contracts for the east, southeast, and southwest regions for a one year term with two options to extend the contracts for an additional term of up to one year, exercisable at the sole discretion of the prhia. the loss of these contracts or significant changes in the puerto rico medicaid program as a result of legislative action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. cms uses a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare advantage plans according to health severity. the risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. under this model, rates paid to medicare advantage plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on a comparison of our beneficiaries risk scores, derived from medical diagnoses, to those enrolled in the government original medicare program. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all medicare advantage plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk adjusted premium payment to medicare advantage plans. we generally rely on providers to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to cms as the basis for our payment received from cms under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. we also rely on providers to appropriately document all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. cms is continuing to perform audits of various companies selected medicare advantage contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. these audits are referred to herein as risk-adjustment data validation audits, or radv audits. radv audits review medical record documentation in an attempt to validate provider coding practices and the presence of risk adjustment conditions which influence the calculation of premium payments to medicare advantage plans. to date, six humana contracts have been selected by cms for radv audits for the 2007 contract year, consisting of one pilot audit and five targeted audits for humana plans. on december 21, 2010, cms posted a description of the agency proposed radv sampling and payment adjustment calculation methodology to its website, and invited public comment, noting that cms may revise its sampling and payment error calculation methodology based upon the comments received. we believe the audit and payment adjustment methodology proposed by cms is fundamentally flawed and actuarially unsound. in essence, in making the comparison referred to above, cms relies on two interdependent sets of data to set payment rates for medicare advantage (ma) plans: (1) fee for service (ffs) data from the government original medicare program; and (2) ma data. the proposed methodology would review medical records for only one set of data (ma data), while not performing the same exercise on the other set (ffs data). however, because these two sets of data are inextricably linked, we believe cms must audit and validate both of them before extrapolating any potential radv audit results, in order to ensure that any resulting payment adjustment is accurate. we believe that the social security act, under which the payment model was established, requires the consistent use of these data sets in determining risk-adjusted payments to ma plans. furthermore, our payment received from cms, as well as benefits offered and premiums charged to members, is based on bids that did not, by cms design, include any assumption of retroactive audit payment adjustments. we believe that applying a retroactive audit adjustment after cms acceptance of bids would improperly alter this process of establishing member benefits and premiums. 23 table of contents cms has received public comments, including our comments and comments from other industry participants and the american academy of actuaries, which expressed concerns about the failure to appropriately compare the two sets of data. on february 3, 2011, cms issued a statement that it was closely evaluating the comments it has received on this matter and anticipates making changes to the proposed methodology based on input it has received, although we are unable to predict the extent of changes that they may make. we believe that the proposed methodology is actuarially unsound and in violation of the social security act. we intend to defend that position vigorously. however, if cms moves forward with implementation of the proposed methodology without changes to adequately address the data inconsistency issues described above, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenues derived from the medicare advantage program and, therefore, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premium revenues related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. beginning in 2008, the risk corridor thresholds increased which means we bear more risk. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net payable of $387.6 million at december 31, 2010. reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms portion of claims costs which exceed the member out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment which we would have otherwise received as a low-income or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. with the assistance of outside counsel, we are conducting an ongoing internal investigation related to certain aspects of our florida subsidiary operations, and have voluntarily self-reported the existence of this investigation to cms, the u.s. department of justice and the florida agency for health care administration. matters under review include, without limitation, the relationships between certain of our florida-based employees and providers in our medicaid and/or medicare networks, practices 24 table of contents related to the financial support of non-profit or provider access centers for medicaid enrollment and related enrollment processes, and financial support of physician practices. we have reported to the regulatory authorities noted above on the progress of our investigation to date, and intend to continue to discuss with these authorities our factual findings as well as any remedial actions we may take. we are also subject to various other governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. the outcome of any current or future governmental or internal investigations, including the matters described above, cannot be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. nevertheless, it is reasonably possible that the outcome of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. recently enacted health insurance reform, including the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and administrative costs by, among other things, requiring a minimum benefit ratio, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with a non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill; and cash flows. in addition, if the new non-deductible federal premium tax is imposed as enacted, and if we are unable to adjust our business model to address this new tax, there can be no assurance that the non-deductible federal premium tax would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in march 2010, the president signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health insurance reform legislation) which enact significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. while regulations and interpretive guidance on some provisions of the health insurance reform legislation have been issued to date by the department of health and human services (hhs), the department of labor, the treasury department, and the national association of insurance commissioners, there are many significant provisions of the legislation that will require additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business, which we expect to occur over the next several years. the provisions of the health insurance reform legislation include, among others, imposing significant new non-deductible federal premium taxes and other assessments on health insurers, limiting medicare advantage payment rates, stipulating a prescribed minimum ratio for the amount of premium revenues to be expended on medical costs, additional mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, requirements that limit the ability of health plans to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, and heightened scrutiny by state and federal regulators of our business practices, including our medicare bid and pricing practices. the health insurance reform legislation also specifies required benefit designs, limits rating and pricing practices, encourages additional competition (including potential incentives for new market entrants) and expands eligibility for medicaid programs. in addition, the law will significantly 25 table of contents increase federal oversight of health plan premium rates and could adversely affect our ability to appropriately adjust health plan premiums on a timely basis. financing for these reforms will come, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals beginning in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. implementation dates of the provisions of the health insurance reform legislation generally vary from as early as six months from the date of enactment, or september 23, 2010, to as late as 2018. implementing regulations and related interpretive guidance continue to be issued on several significant provisions of the health insurance reform legislation, and it has been challenged in the judicial system. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the health insurance reform legislation could change the way we do business, potentially impacting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels. the response of other companies to health insurance reform legislation and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could cause meaningful disruption in the local health care markets. further, various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. it is reasonably possible that the health insurance reform legislation and related regulations, as well as future legislative changes, in the aggregate may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and administrative costs, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill; and cash flows. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health insurance reform legislation, our business may be materially adversely affected. in addition, if the new non-deductible federal premium tax is imposed as enacted, and if we are unable to adjust our business model to address this new tax, there can be no assurance that the non-deductible federal premium tax would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application, could increase our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition, and cash flows. the health care industry in general and health insurance are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation: health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans). american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the 26 table of contents consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to the u.s. department of health and human services in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business associates to comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa provisions and requires the u.s. department of health and human services to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. we will continue to assess the impact of these regulations on us as they are issued. workers compensation laws and regulations in performing services for the workers compensation industry through our subsidiary concentra inc., we must comply with applicable state workers compensation laws. workers compensation laws generally require employers to assume financial responsibility for medical costs, lost wages, and related legal costs of work-related illnesses and injuries. these laws generally establish the rights of workers to receive benefits and to appeal benefit denials, prohibit charging medical co-payments or deductibles to employees, may restrict employers rights to select healthcare providers or direct an injured employee to a specific provider to receive non-emergency workers compensation medical care, and may include special requirements for physicians providing non-emergency care for workers compensation patients, including requiring registration with the state agency governing workers compensation, as well as special continuing education and training, licensing and other regulatory requirements. to the extent that we are governed by these regulations, we may be subject to additional licensing requirements, financial oversight, and procedural standards for beneficiaries and providers. corporate practice of medicine and other laws we are not licensed to practice medicine. many states in which we operate through our subsidiary concentra inc. limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. under the management agreements with concentra professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed healthcare providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. we believe that our health services operations, including arrangements with concentra affiliated professional groups, comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, and similar issues. however, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these statutes, which could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. anti-kickback, physician self-referral, and other fraud and abuse laws a federal law commonly referred to as the anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of medicare or other governmental health program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease, or order of items or services that are covered by medicare or other federal governmental health programs. because the prohibitions contained in the anti-kickback statute apply to the furnishing of items or services for which payment is made in whole or in part, the anti-kickback statute could be implicated if any portion of an item or service we provide is covered by any of the state or federal health benefit programs described above. violation of these provisions constitutes a felony criminal offense and applicable sanctions could include exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. 27 table of contents section 1877 of the social security act, commonly known as the stark law, prohibits physicians, subject to certain exceptions described below, from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity providing designated health services in which the physician, or an immediate family member, has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has entered into a compensation arrangement. these prohibitions, contained in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1993, commonly known as stark ii, amended prior federal physician self-referral legislation known as stark i by expanding the list of designated health services to a total of 11 categories of health services. the professional groups with which we are affiliated provide one or more of these designated health services. persons or entities found to be in violation of the stark law are subject to denial of payment for services furnished pursuant to an improper referral, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. many states also have enacted laws similar in scope and purpose to the anti-kickback statute and, in more limited instances, the stark law, that are not limited to services for which medicare or medicaid payment is made. in addition, most states have statutes, regulations, or professional codes that restrict a physician from accepting various kinds of remuneration in exchange for making referrals. these laws vary from state to state and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. in states that have enacted these statutes, we believe that regulatory authorities and state courts interpreting these statutes may regard federal law under the anti-kickback statute and the stark law as persuasive. we believe that our operations comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, and similar federal or state laws addressing fraud and abuse. these laws are subject to modification and changes in interpretation, and are enforced by authorities vested with broad discretion. we continually monitor developments in this area. if these laws are interpreted in a manner contrary to our interpretation or are reinterpreted or amended, or if new legislation is enacted with respect to healthcare fraud and abuse, illegal remuneration, or similar issues, we may be required to restructure our affected operations to maintain compliance with applicable law. there can be no assurances that any such restructuring will be possible or, if possible, would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. environmental we are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of infectious medical waste and other waste generated at our subsidiary concentra occupational healthcare centers and the cleanup of contamination. if an environmental regulatory agency finds any of our facilities to be in violation of environmental laws, penalties and fines may be imposed for each day of violation and the affected facility could be forced to cease operations. we could also incur other significant costs, such as cleanup costs or claims by third parties, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. although we believe that our environmental practices, including waste handling and disposal practices, are in material compliance with applicable laws, future claims or violations, or changes in environmental laws, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. state regulation of insurance-related products laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate formulas, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. 28 table of contents certain of our subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, or other cash transfers to humana inc., our parent company, and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. although minimum required levels of equity are largely based on premium volume, product mix, and the quality of assets held, minimum requirements can vary significantly at the state level. our state regulated subsidiaries had aggregate statutory capital and surplus of approximately $4.3 billion and $3.8 billion as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which exceeded aggregate minimum regulatory requirements. the amount of dividends that may be paid to our parent company in 2011 without prior approval by state regulatory authorities is approximately $740 million in the aggregate. this compares to dividends that were able to be paid in 2010 without prior regulatory approval of approximately $720 million. any failure to manage administrative costs could hamper profitability. the level of our administrative expenses impacts our profitability. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage such expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, additional investment in new products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs), greater emphasis on small group and individual health insurance products, expansion into new specialty markets, acquisitions, new taxes and assessments, and implementation of regulatory requirements may occur from time to time. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contain our administrative expenses in line with our membership and this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. in 2010, we acquired concentra inc., in 2008, we acquired unitedhealth group las vegas, nevada individual securehorizons medicare advantage hmo business, osf health plans, inc., metcare health plans, inc., and php companies, inc. (d/b/a cariten healthcare), and in late 2007, we acquired kmg america corporation and compbenefits corporation. the failure to successfully integrate these entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of the acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. we may also be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. these providers may share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. 29 table of contents in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care physicians for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month fee under which physicians are paid an amount to provide all required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our pharmacy business, opened in 2006, competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, and internet companies as well as other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state board of pharmacy. in addition, some states have proposed laws to regulate online pharmacies, and we may be subject to this legislation if it is passed. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations. pharmacies must register with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-services pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose our pharmacy subsidiary to civil and criminal penalties. 30 table of contents changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. recent events have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. the doj is currently conducting, and the u.s. house of representatives commerce committee has conducted, an investigation into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our mail-order pharmacy business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our mail-order and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries is restricted. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. these subsidiaries generally are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from our parent company. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts, or, in some states, any amount. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our 7.20% and 8.15% senior notes are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the notes are downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) and contain a change of control provision that may require us to purchase the notes under certain circumstances. in addition, our debt ratings impact both the 31 table of contents cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under recent regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would increase, our sales and earnings could decrease, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. changes in economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the u.s. economy continues to experience a period of slow economic growth and increased unemployment. we have closely monitored the impact that this volatile economy is having on our commercial segment operations. workforce reductions have caused corresponding membership losses in our fully-insured group business. continued weakness in the u.s. economy, and any resulting increases in unemployment, may materially adversely affect our commercial medical membership, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. additionally, the continued weakness of the u.s. economy has adversely affected the budget of individual states and of the federal government. this could result in attempts to reduce payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military services, and medicaid programs, and could result in an increase in taxes and assessments on our activities. although we could attempt to mitigate or cover our exposure from such increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to mitigate or cover all of such costs which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in addition, general inflationary pressures may affect the costs of medical and other care, increasing the costs of claims expenses submitted to us. the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized 32 table of contents loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than- temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures in the foreseeable future, and to refinance or repay debt. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. given the current economic climate, our stock and the stocks of other companies in the insurance industry may be increasingly subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. over the past three years, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility. company-specific issues and market developments generally in the insurance industry and in the regulatory environment may have contributed to this volatility. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to materially fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: the enactment of, and the potential for additional, health insurance reform; general economic conditions; quarterly variations in operating results; natural disasters, terrorist attacks and epidemics; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; press releases or negative publicity relating to our competitors or us or relating to trends in our markets; regulatory changes and adverse outcomes from litigation and government or regulatory investigations; sales of stock by insiders; changes in our credit ratings; limitations on premium levels or the ability to raise premiums on existing policies; increases in minimum capital, reserves, and other financial strength requirements; and limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock. these factors could materially reduce our stock price. in addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. 33 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. until october 7, 2008, we exchanged the fixed interest rate under all of our senior notes for a variable interest rate based on libor using interest rate swap agreements. as a result, changes in interest rates generally resulted in an increase or decrease to investment income partially offset by a corresponding decrease or increase to interest expense, partially hedging our exposure to interest rate risk. however, due to extreme volatility in the securities and credit markets, libor increased while the interest rate we would earn on invested assets like cash and cash equivalents decreased. as a result, we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements, fixing the average interest rate under our senior notes at 6.08%. in exchange for terminating our rights under the interest rate swap agreements, we received $93.0 million in cash from the counterparties representing the fair value of the swap assets. we may re-enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either libor or the base rate plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2010 or december 31, 2009. interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with an average s&amp;p credit rating of aa at december 31, 2010. our net unrealized position improved $125.1 million from a net unrealized gain position of $71.4 million at december 31, 2009 to a net unrealized gain position of $196.5 million at december 31, 2010. at december 31, 2010, we had gross unrealized losses of $62.0 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates and tighter liquidity conditions in the current markets than when the securities were purchased, and as such, there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2010. while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 4.0 years as of december 31, 2010. based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $395 million. we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200 and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2010 and 2009. our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not 75 table of contents account for certain unpredictable events that may effect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points twice, have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points four times, and have changed by less than 100 basis points four times. increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in thousands) as of december 31, 2010 investment income $ (30,864 ) $ (20,498 ) $ (10,427 ) $ 35,736 $ 71,236 $ 106,910 interest expense (a) 0 0 0 0 0 0 pretax $ (30,864 ) $ (20,498 ) $ (10,427 ) $ 35,736 $ 71,236 $ 106,910 as of december 31, 2009 investment income $ (24,993 ) $ (17,443 ) $ (15,075 ) $ 36,729 $ 68,447 $ 101,142 interest expense (a) 0 0 0 0 0 0 pretax $ (24,993 ) $ (17,443 ) $ (15,075 ) $ 36,729 $ 68,447 $ 101,142 (a) the interest rate under our senior notes is fixed. there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2010 or december 31, 2009. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors in this 2011 form 10-k for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. health insurance reform in march 2010, the president signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health insurance reform legislation) which enact significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. there are many significant provisions of the legislation that will require additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business, which we expect to occur over the next several years. certain significant provisions of the health insurance reform legislation include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to medicare 3 table of contents advantage premiums, the establishment of state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, an annual insurance industry premium-based assessment, and a three-year commercial reinsurance fee. implementation dates of the health insurance reform legislation vary from september 30, 2010 to as late as 2018. the health insurance reform legislation is discussed more fully in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled health insurance reform. 2011 business segment realignment during the first quarter of 2011, we realigned our business segments to reflect our evolving business model. as a result, we reassessed and changed our operating and reportable segments in the first quarter of 2011 to reflect management view of the business and to align our external financial reporting with our new operating and internal financial reporting model. historical segment information has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the effect of this change. our new reportable segments and the basis for determining those segments are discussed below. business segments we currently manage our business with three reportable segments: retail, employer group, and health and well-being services. in addition, we include businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles in an other businesses category. these segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer to assess performance and allocate resources. the retail segment consists of medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, marketed directly to individuals. the employer group segment consists of medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, as well as administrative services only products marketed to employer groups. the health and well-being services segment includes services offered to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including primary care, pharmacy, integrated wellness, and home care services. the other businesses category consists of our military services, primarily our tricare south region contract, medicaid, and closed-block long-term care businesses as well as our contract with cms to administer the limited income newly eligible transition program, or the li-net program. the results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. transactions between reportable segments consist of sales of services rendered by our health and well-being services segment, primarily pharmacy and behavioral health services, to our retail and employer group customers. intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at fair value and eliminated in consolidation. members served by our segments often utilize the same provider networks, enabling us in some instances to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. our segments also share indirect costs and assets. as a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. we allocate most operating expenses to our segments. assets and certain corporate income and expenses are not allocated to the segments, including the portion of investment income not supporting segment operations, interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate expenses. these items are managed at the corporate level. these corporate amounts are reported separately from our reportable segments and included with intersegment eliminations. 4 table of contents our products our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. these products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. health maintenance organizations, or hmos, generally require a referral from the member primary care physician before seeing certain specialty physicians. preferred provider organizations, or ppos, provide members the freedom to choose a health care provider without requiring a referral. however ppos generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the ppo network. point of service, or pos, plans combine the advantages of hmo plans with the flexibility of ppo plans. in general, pos plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan network or outside the network. in addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy, primary care, integrated wellness, and home care services. the discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. our retail segment products this segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the retail segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2011: retail segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: individual medicare advantage $ 18,100 49.6 % individual medicare stand-alone pdp 2,317 6.4 % total individual medicare 20,417 56.0 % individual commercial 861 2.4 % individual specialty 124 0.3 % total premiums 21,402 58.7 % services 16 0.0 % total premiums and services revenue $ 21,418 58.7 % individual medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 25 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. we have a geographically diverse membership base that provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. we believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and 5 table of contents part b coverage under original medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as original medicare. as an alternative to original medicare, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under original medicare. our medicare advantage plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. individual medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of original medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, disease management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on january 1. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations, hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in most cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. our medicare pffs plans generally have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to original medicare payment rates. on january 1, 2011, most of our members enrolled in pffs plans transitioned to networked-based ppo type products due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. at december 31, 2011, we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 1,640,300 individual medicare advantage members. under our individual medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 362,100 members. these florida 6 table of contents contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $5.6 billion, which represented approximately 31% of our individual medicare advantage premiums revenue, or 15% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2011. our hmo, ppo, and pffs products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage products have been renewed for 2012, and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2012 have been approved. individual medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. in october 2010, we announced the lowest premium national stand-alone medicare part d prescription drug plan co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., the humana walmart-preferred rx plan. this plan was first offered for the 2011 plan year. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled medicare part d provisions. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp products have been renewed for 2012, and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2012 have been approved. medicare and medicaid dual eligible medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. there were approximately 9 million dual eligible enrollees in 2011. these dual eligibles may enroll in a privately-offered medicare advantage product, but may also receive assistance from medicaid for medicaid benefits, such as nursing home care and/or assistance with medicare premiums and cost sharing. as of december 31, 2011, we served approximately 242,000 dual eligible members in our medicare advantage plans and approximately 482,000 dual eligible members in our stand-alone prescription drug plans. individual commercial coverage our individual health plans, marketed under the humanaone &reg; brand include offerings designed to promote wellness and engage consumers. humanaone plans are designed specifically for self-employed entrepreneurs, small-business employees, part-time workers, students, and early retirees and include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices, as well as humanavitality &reg; , our wellness and loyalty rewards program. our humanaone plans primarily are offered as ppo plans in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. this individual product includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. the humanaone plans can be further customized with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a broad portfolio of financial protection products. 7 table of contents our employer group segment products this segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the employer group segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2011: employer group segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: fully-insured commercial group $ 4,782 13.1 % group medicare advantage 3,152 8.6 % group medicare stand-alone pdp 8 0.0 % total group medicare 3,160 8.6 % group specialty 935 2.6 % total premiums 8,877 24.3 % services 356 1.0 % total premiums and services revenue $ 9,233 25.3 % employer group commercial coverage our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through hmo, ppo, or pos plans, or self-funded basis. our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. as with our individual commercial products, the employer group offerings include humanavitality wellness offerings. our administrative services only, or aso, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured hmo, ppo, or pos products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, more than half of our aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. as with individual commercial policies, employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a broad portfolio of financial protection products. group medicare advantage and medicare stand-alone pdp we offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace medicare wrap or medicare supplement products with medicare advantage or stand-alone pdps from humana. these products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an employer post-retirement benefit structure. 8 table of contents our health and well-being services segment products this segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that promote health and well-being. these services are sold primarily to other humana businesses, as well as external health plan members and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. our intersegment revenue is described in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. the following table presents our services revenue for the health and well-being services segment by line of business for the year ended december 31, 2011: health and well- being services segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) intersegment revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 9,886 n/a primary care services 185 n/a integrated wellness services 175 n/a home care services 84 n/a total intersegment revenue $ 10,330 external services revenue: primary care services $ 880 2.5 % integrated wellness services 12 0.0 % pharmacy solutions 11 0.0 % total external services revenue $ 903 2.5 % n/a not applicable pharmacy solutions humana pharmacy solutions &reg; , or hps, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. hps also operates prescription mail order services for brand and generic drugs, specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through rightsourcerx &reg; , as well as research services. primary care services our subsidiary, concentra inc. &reg; , acquired in december 2010, delivers occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness services to employees and the general public through its operation of medical centers and worksite medical facilities. in addition to concentra, our primary care services also include our cac medical centers, or cac, in south florida. cac operates full-service, multi-specialty medical centers staffed by primary care physicians and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry. integrated wellness services corphealth, inc. (d/b/a lifesynch &reg; ), a humana subsidiary, offers disease management services through an innovative suite of integrated products, integrating behavioral health services with wellness programs, and employee assistance programs and work-life services. lifesynch integrated wellness services include hummingbird coaching &reg; , a wellness coaching company that offers a comprehensive turn-key coaching program, an enhancement to a medically based coaching protocol and a platform that makes coaching programs more efficient. 9 table of contents humanavitality, llc, a joint venture with discovery holdings ltd., provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual needs and wants. humanavitality &reg; became available to certain of our members in mid-2011. a key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an actuarially sound incentive program. home care services humana cares &reg; provides innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. other businesses products and services offered by our other businesses are described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for our other businesses for the year ended december 31, 2011: other businesses premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: military services $ 3,616 9.9 % medicaid 919 2.5 % li-net 253 0.7 % closed-block long-term care 39 0.1 % total premiums 4,827 13.2 % services 85 0.3 % total premiums and services revenue $ 4,912 13.5 % military services under our tricare south region contract with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide health insurance coverage to the dependents of active duty military personnel and to retired military personnel and their dependents. currently, three health benefit options are available to tricare beneficiaries. in addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in a hmo-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a ppo. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the department of defense. our current tricare south region contract, which we were awarded in 2003, covers approximately 3.0 million eligible beneficiaries as of december 31, 2011 in florida, georgia, south carolina, mississippi, alabama, tennessee, louisiana, arkansas, texas, and oklahoma. the south region is one of the three regions in the united states as defined by the department of defense. of these eligible beneficiaries, 1.3 million were tricare aso members representing active duty beneficiaries and seniors over the age of 65 for which the department of defense retains all of the risk of financing the cost of their health benefit. we have subcontracted with third parties to provide selected administration and specialty services under the contract. the original 5-year south region contract expired on march 31, 2009 and was extended through march 31, 2012. on february 25, 2011, the department of defense tricare management activity, or tma, awarded the new tricare south region contract to us, which we expect to take effect on april 1, 2012. the new 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2017, is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year during its term at the government option. 10 table of contents under the current tricare south region contract, any variance from the negotiated target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount may have a material adverse effect on us. these changes may include an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. the tricare south region contract represents approximately 97% of total military services premiums and services revenue. medicaid medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to facilitate the delivery of health care services primarily to low-income residents. each electing state develops, through a state-specific regulatory agency, a medicaid managed care initiative that must be approved by cms. cms requires that medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. states currently either use a formal proposal process in which they review many bidders before selecting one or award individual contracts to qualified bidders who apply for entry to the program. in either case, the contractual relationship with a state generally is for a one-year period. under these contracts, we receive a fixed monthly payment from a government agency for which we are required to provide health insurance coverage to enrolled members. due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a managed care product in their medicaid programs. our medicaid business consists of contracts in puerto rico and florida, with the vast majority in puerto rico. li-net in 2010, we began to administer cms li-net program. this program allows individuals who receive medicare low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a medicare part d plan. cms temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both medicare and medicaid into the li-net program, and subsequently transitions each member into a medicare part d plan that may or may not be a humana medicare plan. closed block of long-term care insurance we acquired a closed block of approximately 35,000 long-term care policies in connection with our acquisition of kmg america corporation in 2007. long-term care policies are intended to protect the insured from the cost of long-term care services including those provided by nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and adult day care as well as home health care services. no new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. 11 table of contents membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2011, by market and product: retail segment employer group segment (in thousands) individual medicare advantage individual medicare stand- alone pdp individual commercial fully- insured commercial group group medicare advantage and stand- alone pdp aso other businesses total percent of total florida 362.1 169.9 80.5 149.7 19.2 70.1 0 851.5 7.6 % texas 118.6 204.1 74.7 266.8 5.1 108.7 0 778.0 7.0 % kentucky 43.1 46.0 21.4 99.0 29.4 513.1 0 752.0 6.7 % illinois 64.5 82.7 37.8 170.7 5.6 118.9 (a) 0 480.2 4.3 % ohio 51.0 83.7 6.3 52.0 122.4 152.8 0 468.2 4.2 % wisconsin 44.4 48.8 15.4 82.8 12.3 142.9 0 346.6 3.1 % georgia 53.7 53.4 41.6 82.3 6.6 44.6 0 282.2 2.5 % missouri/kansas 69.9 134.0 14.1 43.6 6.0 8.9 0 276.5 2.5 % tennessee 87.8 70.1 17.5 36.6 2.7 31.8 0 246.5 2.2 % california 17.2 215.9 3.1 0.2 0 0 0 236.4 2.1 % louisiana 91.3 32.7 14.0 43.6 7.2 24.1 0 212.9 1.9 % indiana 42.1 67.9 5.9 20.3 3.5 47.9 0 187.6 1.7 % north carolina 62.1 91.4 6.4 0.2 1.9 0 0 162.0 1.5 % michigan 35.1 80.9 12.5 15.4 6.2 9.3 0 159.4 1.4 % virginia 57.8 72.9 3.7 0 2.5 0 0 136.9 1.2 % arizona 36.2 39.8 16.3 24.5 3.5 6.7 0 127.0 1.1 % colorado 21.8 35.4 34.1 19.2 5.1 0.4 0 116.0 1.0 % military services 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,722.9 1,722.9 15.4 % military services aso 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,305.2 1,305.2 11.7 % medicaid and other 0 0 0 0 0 0 614.2 614.2 5.5 % li-net 0 0 0 0 0 0 73.5 73.5 0.7 % others 381.6 1,010.8 87.9 73.3 55.6 39.7 0 1,648.9 14.7 % totals 1,640.3 2,540.4 493.2 1,180.2 294.8 1,319.9 3,715.8 11,184.6 100.0 % (a) includes 27,600 medicare advantage aso members. provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care physicians, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems and enrolling members into various disease management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care physician who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have 12 table of contents arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. our hospitalist programs use specially-trained physicians to effectively manage the entire range of an hmo member medical care during a hospital admission and to effectively coordinate the member discharge and post-discharge care. we have available a variety of disease management programs related to specific medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index or other nationally recognized inflation indexes. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. the budget control act of 2011 established a twelve-member joint committee of congress known as the joint select committee on deficit reduction to propose legislation to reduce the united states federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. the failure of the joint select committee on deficit reduction to achieve a targeted deficit reduction by december 23, 2011 triggered an automatic reduction, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. at this time it is unclear how this automatic reduction may be applied to various medicare healthcare programs or the timing when such reductions may begin. we expect that if such reductions were to occur, there would be a corresponding substantial reduction in our obligations to providers. due to the uncertainty around the timing or application of any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we could completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs applied by the budget control act of 2011. capitation for approximately 1.0% of our medical membership, including 3.3% of our total medicare advantage membership, at december 31, 2011, we contract with hospitals and physicians to accept financial risk for a defined set of hmo membership. in transferring this risk, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to coordinate substantially all of the medical care for their capitated hmo membership, including some health benefit administrative functions and claims processing. for these capitated hmo arrangements, we generally agree to reimbursement rates that target a benefit ratio. the benefit ratio measures underwriting profitability and is computed by taking total benefit expenses as a percentage of premiums revenue. providers participating in hospital-based capitated hmo arrangements generally receive a monthly payment for all of the services within their system for their hmo membership. providers participating in physician-based capitated hmo arrangements generally have subcontracted directly with hospitals and specialist physicians, and are responsible for reimbursing such hospitals and specialist physicians for services rendered to their hmo membership. for approximately 8.6% of our medical membership, including 19.0% of our total medicare advantage membership, at december 31, 2011, we contract with physicians under risk-sharing arrangements whereby 13 table of contents physicians have assumed some level of risk for all or a portion of the medical costs of their hmo membership. although these arrangements do include physician capitation payments for services rendered, we share hospital and other benefit expenses and process substantially all of the claims under these arrangements. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. medical membership under these various arrangements was as follows at december 31, 2011 and 2010: medical membership december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 capitated hmo hospital system based 34,400 0.3 % 34,800 0.3 % capitated hmo physician group based 75,100 0.7 % 52,500 0.5 % risk-sharing 963,600 8.6 % 910,700 8.9 % other 10,111,500 90.4 % 9,288,600 90.3 % total 11,184,600 100.0 % 10,286,600 100.0 % capitation expense as a percentage of total benefit expense was as follows for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 (dollars in millions) benefit expenses: capitated hmo expense $ 505 1.8 % $ 436 1.6 % $ 459 1.9 % other benefit expense 28,318 98.2 % 26,681 98.4 % 24,325 98.1 % consolidated benefit expense $ 28,823 100.0 % $ 27,117 100.0 % $ 24,784 100.0 % accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies, as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. physicians participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating physicians includes verification of their medical licenses; review of their malpractice liability claims histories; review of their board certifications, if applicable; and review of applicable quality information. a committee, composed of a peer group of physicians, reviews the applications of physicians being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care, and the utilization review accreditation commission, or urac. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. 14 table of contents ncqa performs reviews of our compliance with standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in all of our commercial, medicare and medicaid hmo/pos markets with enough history and membership, except puerto rico, and for many of our ppo markets. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2011, we employed approximately 2,000 sales representatives, as well as approximately 900 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of medicare products in our retail segment by making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we also market our medicare products via a strategic alliance with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart. this alliance includes stationing humana representatives in certain wal-mart stores, sam club locations, and neighborhood markets across the country providing an opportunity to enroll medicare eligible individuals in person. in addition, we market our medicare products through licensed independent brokers and agents including strategic alliances with state farm &reg; and united services automobile association, or usaa. commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure approved by cms. for our retail segment, we also offer commercial health insurance and specialty products directly to individuals. in our employer group segment, individuals may become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer or group exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. we also sell group medicare advantage products through large employers. for both our retail and employer group segments, at december 31, 2011, we used licensed independent brokers and agents and approximately 1,100 licensed employees to sell our commercial insurance products. many of our employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. underwriting through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determine the risk we are willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups must meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. small group laws in some states have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged based upon assessment of health conditions. beginning in 2014, the health insurance reform legislation requires all individual and group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments. underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. 15 table of contents competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos, including hmos and ppos owned by blue cross/blue shield plans. many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in the section entitled risk factors in this 2011 form 10-k. government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see the section entitled risk factors in this 2011 form 10-k. other captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, and customer service. employees as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately 40,000 employees, including approximately 2,050 medical professionals working under management agreements between concentra and affiliated physician-owned associations. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, or if our estimates of benefit expenses are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefit expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. these estimates, however involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in payment patterns and medical cost trends. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services, including prescription drugs; increased cost of such services; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including any that result from cms medicare advantage and medicare part d risk adjustment regulatory changes or health insurance reform legislation. in addition, we also estimate costs associated with long-duration insurance policies including life insurance, annuities, health, and long-term care policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. these future policy benefit reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal and maintenance expense assumptions from published actuarial tables, as modified based upon actual experience. the assumptions used to determine the liability for future policy benefits are established and locked in at the time 17 table of contents each contract is acquired and would only change if our expected future experience deteriorated to the point that the level of the liability, together with the present value of future gross premiums, are not adequate to provide for future expected policy benefits. future policy benefits payable include $938 million at december 31, 2011 associated with a closed block of long-term care policies acquired in connection with the november 30, 2007 kmg america corporation acquisition. long-term care policies provide for long-duration coverage and, therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. the risk of a deviation of the actual morbidity and mortality rates from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care policies. we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care policies, and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. however, to the extent premium rate increases or loss experience vary from our acquisition date assumptions, additional future adjustments to reserves could be required. during the fourth quarter of 2010, certain states approved premium rate increases for a large portion of our long-term care block that were significantly below our acquisition date assumptions. based on these actions by the states, combined with lower interest rates and higher actual expenses as compared to acquisition date assumptions, we determined that our existing future policy benefits payable, together with the present value of future gross premiums, associated with our long-term care policies were not adequate to provide for future policy benefits under these policies; therefore we unlocked and modified our assumptions based on current expectations. accordingly, during the fourth quarter of 2010 we recorded $139 million of additional benefit expense, with a corresponding increase in future policy benefits payable of $170 million partially offset by a related reinsurance recoverable of $31 million included in other long-term assets. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program. we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform, and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in medicare products. our future performance depends in large part upon our management team ability to execute our strategy to position us for the future. this strategy includes opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare 18 table of contents programs, including our hmo and ppo products, as well as our stand-alone pdp products. we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. over the last few years we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we are offering both the stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plan with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer the medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare products is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare products in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in medicare products. there is significant concentration of our revenues in medicare products, with approximately 65% of our total premiums and services revenue in 2011 generated from our medicare products. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. recently enacted health insurance reform legislation created a federal medicare-medicaid coordination office to serve dual eligibles. this medicare-medicaid coordination office has initiated a series of state demonstration projects to experiment with better coordination of care between medicare and medicaid. depending upon the results of those demonstration projects, cms may change the way in which dual eligibles are serviced. if we are unable to implement our strategic initiatives to address the dual eligibles opportunity, or if our initiatives are not successful at attracting or retaining dual eligible members, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial products, such as aso and individual products, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including humanavitality and other wellness products, expansion of our specialty products such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, the adoption of new technologies, development of adjacent businesses, and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts, including the 2010 acquisition of concentra inc. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including outsourcing certain business functions, that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we took steps to reduce the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. 19 table of contents we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. our business plans also include becoming a quality e-business organization by enhancing interactions with customers, brokers, agents, providers and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology. our strategy includes sales and distribution of health benefit products through the internet, and implementation of advanced self-service capabilities, for internal and external stakeholders. a cybersecurity attack that bypasses our information technology, or it, security systems causing a security breach may lead to a material disruption of our information technology business systems and/or the loss of business information. if a cybersecurity attack were to be successful, we could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property, operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our it systems, or negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, brokers, agents, providers, and other stakeholders. there can be no assurance that our it process will successfully improve existing systems, develop new systems to support our expanding operations, integrate new systems, protect our proprietary information, defend against cybersecurity attacks, or improve service levels. in addition, there can be no assurance that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business may be materially adversely impacted by cms adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses. cms has adopted a new coding set for diagnoses, commonly known as icd-10, which significantly expands the number of codes utilized. we may be required to incur significant expenses in implementing the new coding set. if we do not adequately implement the new coding set, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. we are involved in various legal actions and governmental and internal investigations, including, without limitation, an ongoing internal investigation and litigation and government requests for information related to certain aspects of our florida subsidiary operations, any of which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are or may become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, securities laws claims, and tort claims. 20 table of contents in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management, and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers alleged malpractice; claims arising from any adverse medical consequences resulting from our recommendations about the appropriateness of providers proposed medical treatment plans for patients; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that we, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy; and professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public, including urgent care. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these suits with certainty. 21 table of contents as a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. these programs accounted for approximately 78% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2011. these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2011, under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 381,300 medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 16% of our total premiums and services revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011. the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2011, our military services business primarily consisted of the tricare south region contract which covers approximately 3.0 million beneficiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2011, premiums and services revenue associated with the tricare south region contract accounted for approximately 9.8% of our total premiums and services revenue. the original 5-year south region contract expired on march 31, 2009 and was extended through march 31, 2012. on february 25, 2011, the department of defense tricare management activity, or tma, awarded the new tricare south region contract to us, which we expect to take effect on april 1, 2012. the new 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2017, is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year during its term at the government option. we expect to account for revenues under the new tricare south contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. as such, we expect a decline in tricare revenues for 2012 and an increase in our operating cost ratio as compared to 2011. under the current tricare south region contract, any variance from the negotiated target health care cost is shared with the federal government. accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount may have a material adverse effect on us. these changes may include an increase or reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government decision to increase or decrease u.s. military deployments. the loss of the tricare south region contract or, in the event government reimbursements were to decline from projected amounts, our failure to reduce the health care costs associated with these programs, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2011, under our contracts with the puerto rico health insurance administration, or prhia, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 529,300 medicaid members in puerto rico. these contracts accounted for approximately 2% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2011. effective october 1, 2010, the prhia awarded us three contracts for the east, southeast, and southwest regions for a one year term with two options to extend the contracts for an additional term of up to one year, exercisable at the sole discretion of the prhia. the loss of these contracts or significant changes in the puerto rico medicaid program as a result of legislative action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. as a government contractor, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that the government 22 table of contents contractor submitted false claims to the government. litigation of this nature is filed under seal to allow the government an opportunity to investigate and to decide if it wishes to intervene and assume control of the litigation. if the government does not intervene, the lawsuit is unsealed, and the individual may continue to prosecute the action on his or her own. cms uses a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare advantage plans according to health severity. the risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. under this model, rates paid to medicare advantage plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process that bases our prospective payments on a comparison of our beneficiaries risk scores, derived from medical diagnoses, to those enrolled in the government original medicare program. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all medicare advantage plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to medicare advantage plans. we generally rely on providers to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to cms as the basis for our payment received from cms under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. we also rely on providers to appropriately document all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. cms is continuing to perform audits of various companies selected medicare advantage contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. these audits are referred to herein as risk-adjustment data validation audits, or radv audits. radv audits review medical record documentation in an attempt to validate provider coding practices and the presence of risk adjustment conditions which influence the calculation of premium payments to medicare advantage plans. to date, six humana contracts have been selected by cms for radv audits for the 2007 contract year, consisting of one pilot audit and five targeted audits for humana plans. on december 21, 2010, cms posted a description of the agency proposed radv sampling and payment adjustment calculation methodology to its website, and invited public comment, noting that cms may revise its sampling and payment error calculation methodology based upon the comments received. we believe the audit and payment adjustment methodology proposed by cms is fundamentally flawed and actuarially unsound. in essence, in making the comparison referred to above, cms relies on two interdependent sets of data to set payment rates for medicare advantage (ma) plans: (1) fee for service (ffs) data from the government original medicare program; and (2) ma data. the proposed methodology would review medical records for only one set of data (ma data), while not performing the same exercise on the other set (ffs data). however, because these two sets of data are inextricably linked, we believe cms must audit and validate both of them before extrapolating any potential radv audit results, in order to ensure that any resulting payment adjustment is accurate. we believe that the social security act, under which the payment model was established, requires the consistent use of these data sets in determining risk-adjusted payments to ma plans. furthermore, our payment received from cms, as well as benefits offered and premiums charged to members, is based on bids that did not, by cms design, include any assumption of retroactive audit payment adjustments. we believe that applying a retroactive audit adjustment after cms acceptance of bids would improperly alter this process of establishing member benefits and premiums. cms has received public comments, including our comments and comments from other industry participants and the american academy of actuaries, which expressed concerns about the failure to appropriately compare the two sets of data. on february 3, 2011, cms issued a statement that it was closely evaluating the comments it has received on this matter and anticipates making changes to the proposed methodology based on input it has received, although we are unable to predict the extent of changes that they may make. we believe that the proposed methodology is actuarially unsound and in violation of the social security act. we intend to defend that position vigorously. however, if cms moves forward with implementation of the proposed methodology without changes to adequately address the data 23 table of contents inconsistency issues described above, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenues derived from the medicare advantage program and, therefore, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premiums revenue related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net payable of $329 million at december 31, 2011. reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms portion of claims costs which exceed the member out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment which we would have otherwise received as a low-income or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. the budget control act of 2011, enacted on august 2, 2011, increased the united states debt ceiling conditioned on deficit reductions to be achieved over the next ten years. the budget control act of 2011 also established a twelve-member joint committee of congress known as the joint select committee on deficit reduction to propose legislation to reduce the united states federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. the failure of the joint select committee on deficit reduction to achieve a targeted deficit reduction by december 23, 2011 triggered an automatic reduction, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. at this time it is unclear how this automatic reduction may be applied to various medicare healthcare programs or the timing when such reductions may begin. we expect that if such reductions were to occur, there would be a corresponding substantial reduction in our obligations to providers. due to the uncertainty around the timing or application of any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we could completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs applied by the budget control act of 2011. with the assistance of outside counsel, we are conducting an ongoing internal investigation related to certain aspects of our florida subsidiary operations, and have voluntarily self-reported the existence of 24 table of contents this investigation to cms, the u.s. department of justice and the florida agency for health care administration. matters under review include, without limitation, the relationships between certain of our florida-based employees and providers in our medicaid and/or medicare networks, practices related to the financial support of non-profit or provider access centers for medicaid enrollment and related enrollment processes, and loans to or other financial support of physician practices. we have reported to the regulatory authorities noted above on the progress of our investigation to date, and intend to continue to discuss with these authorities our factual findings as well as any remedial actions we may take. we may also face litigation or further government inquiry regarding certain aspects of the medicare and medicaid operations of certain of our florida subsidiaries. we are also subject to various other governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. the outcome of any current or future governmental or internal investigations, including the matters described above, cannot be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. nevertheless, it is reasonably possible that the outcome of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. certain of these matters could also affect our reputation. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. recently enacted health insurance reform, including the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs by, among other things, requiring a minimum benefit ratio on insured products (and particularly how the ratio may apply to medicare plans), lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with a non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill; and cash flows. in addition, if the new non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments, including a three-year commercial reinsurance fee, were imposed as enacted, and if we are unable to adjust our business model to address these new taxes and assessments, such as through the reduction of our operating costs, there can be no assurance that the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in march 2010, the president signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health insurance reform legislation) which enact significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. while regulations and interpretive guidance on some provisions of the health insurance reform legislation have been issued to date by the department of health and human services (hhs), the department of labor, the treasury department, and the national association of insurance commissioners, there are many significant provisions of the legislation that will require additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business, which we expect to occur over the next several years. the provisions of the health insurance reform legislation include, among others, imposing significant new non-deductible federal premium taxes and other assessments on health insurers, limiting medicare advantage 25 table of contents payment rates, stipulating a prescribed minimum ratio for the amount of premiums revenue to be expended on medical costs for insured products (and particularly how the ratio may apply to medicare advantage and possibly prescription drug plans), additional mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, requirements that limit the ability of health plans to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, and heightened scrutiny by state and federal regulators of our business practices, including our medicare bid and pricing practices. the health insurance reform legislation also specifies required benefit designs, limits rating and pricing practices, encourages additional competition (including potential incentives for new market entrants), establishes state-based exchanges for individuals and small employers (with up to 100 employees) coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, and expands eligibility for medicaid programs. in addition, the law will significantly increase federal oversight of health plan premium rates and could adversely affect our ability to appropriately adjust health plan premiums on a timely basis. financing for these reforms will come, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals beginning in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. implementation dates of the provisions of the health insurance reform legislation generally vary from september 23, 2010 to as late as 2018. implementing regulations and related interpretive guidance continue to be issued on several significant provisions of the health insurance reform legislation. the implementation of the individual mandate as well as medicaid expansion in the health insurance reform legislation are also being considered by the u.s. supreme court, seeking to have all or portions of the health insurance reform legislation declared unconstitutional. we cannot predict the results of these proceedings. congress may also withhold the funding necessary to implement the health insurance reform legislation, or may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or repeal it altogether. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the health insurance reform legislation could change the way we do business, potentially impacting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels. in particular, implementing regulations and related guidance are forthcoming on various aspects of the minimum benefit ratio requirement applicability to medicare, including aggregation, credibility thresholds, and its possible application to prescription drug plans. the response of other companies to health insurance reform legislation and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could cause meaningful disruption in the local health care markets. further, various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. it is reasonably possible that the health insurance reform legislation and related regulations, as well as future legislative changes, in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill; and our cash flows. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health insurance reform legislation, our business may be materially adversely affected. in addition, if the new non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments, including a three-year commercial reinsurance fee, were imposed as enacted, and if we are unable to adjust our business model to address these new taxes and assessments, such as through the reduction of our operating costs, there can be no assurance that the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application, could increase our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition, and cash flows. the health care industry in general and health insurance are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation: 26 table of contents health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (hitech act) the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers, and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans). the hitech act, one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, significantly broadened the scope of the privacy and security regulations of hipaa. among other requirements, the hitech act mandates individual notification in the event of a breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information, provides enhanced penalties for hipaa violations, and grants enforcement authority to states attorneys general in addition to the hhs office of civil rights. on october 30, 2009, hhs issued an interim final rule implementing amendments to the enforcement regulations under hipaa. on july 14, 2010, hhs issued a proposed rule containing modifications to privacy standards, security standards, and enforcement actions. in addition, hhs is currently in the process of finalizing regulations addressing security breach notification requirements. hhs initially released an interim final rule for breach notification requirements on august 24, 2009. hhs then drafted a final rule which was submitted to office of management and budget but subsequently withdrawn by hhs on july 29, 2010. currently, the interim final rule remains in effect but the withdrawal suggests that when hhs issues the final rule, the requirements for how covered entities should respond in the event of a potential security breach involving protected health information are likely to be more onerous than those contained in the interim final rule. in addition, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. state statutes and regulations vary from state to state and could impose additional penalties. violations of hipaa or applicable federal or state laws or regulations could subject us to significant criminal or civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa and other privacy regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. an investigation or initiation of civil or criminal actions could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation. american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to the u.s. department of health and human services in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business associates to 27 table of contents comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa provisions and requires the u.s. department of health and human services to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. workers compensation laws and regulations in performing services for the workers compensation industry through our subsidiary concentra inc., we must comply with applicable state workers compensation laws. workers compensation laws generally require employers to assume financial responsibility for medical costs, lost wages, and related legal costs of work-related illnesses and injuries. these laws generally establish the rights of workers to receive benefits and to appeal benefit denials, prohibit charging medical co-payments or deductibles to employees, may restrict employers rights to select healthcare providers or direct an injured employee to a specific provider to receive non-emergency workers compensation medical care, and may include special requirements for physicians providing non-emergency care for workers compensation patients, including requiring registration with the state agency governing workers compensation, as well as special continuing education and training, licensing and other regulatory requirements. to the extent that we are governed by these regulations, we may be subject to additional licensing requirements, financial oversight, and procedural standards for beneficiaries and providers. corporate practice of medicine and other laws as a corporate entity, humana inc. is not licensed to practice medicine. many states in which we operate through our subsidiary concentra inc. limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. under management agreements between concentra and its affiliated physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed healthcare providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. we believe that our health services operations, including arrangements with concentra affiliated professional groups, comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, and similar issues. however, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these statutes, which could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. anti-kickback, physician self-referral, and other fraud and abuse laws a federal law commonly referred to as the anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of medicare or other governmental health program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease, or order of items or services that are covered by medicare or other federal governmental health programs. because the prohibitions contained in the anti-kickback statute apply to the furnishing of items or services for which payment is made in whole or in part, the anti-kickback statute could be implicated if any portion of an item or service we provide is covered by any of the state or federal health benefit programs described above. violation of these provisions constitutes a felony criminal offense and applicable sanctions could include exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. section 1877 of the social security act, commonly known as the stark law, prohibits physicians, subject to certain exceptions described below, from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity providing designated health services in which the physician, or an immediate family member, has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has entered into a compensation arrangement. these prohibitions, contained in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1993, commonly known as stark ii, amended prior federal physician self-referral legislation known as stark i by 28 table of contents expanding the list of designated health services to a total of 11 categories of health services. the professional groups with which we are affiliated provide one or more of these designated health services. persons or entities found to be in violation of the stark law are subject to denial of payment for services furnished pursuant to an improper referral, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. many states also have enacted laws similar in scope and purpose to the anti-kickback statute and, in more limited instances, the stark law, that are not limited to services for which medicare or medicaid payment is made. in addition, most states have statutes, regulations, or professional codes that restrict a physician from accepting various kinds of remuneration in exchange for making referrals. these laws vary from state to state and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. in states that have enacted these statutes, we believe that regulatory authorities and state courts interpreting these statutes may regard federal law under the anti-kickback statute and the stark law as persuasive. we believe that our operations comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, and similar federal or state laws addressing fraud and abuse. these laws are subject to modification and changes in interpretation, and are enforced by authorities vested with broad discretion. we continually monitor developments in this area. if these laws are interpreted in a manner contrary to our interpretation or are reinterpreted or amended, or if new legislation is enacted with respect to healthcare fraud and abuse, illegal remuneration, or similar issues, we may be required to restructure our affected operations to maintain compliance with applicable law. there can be no assurances that any such restructuring will be possible or, if possible, would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. environmental we are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of infectious medical waste and other waste generated at our subsidiary concentra occupational healthcare centers and the cleanup of contamination. if an environmental regulatory agency finds any of our facilities to be in violation of environmental laws, penalties and fines may be imposed for each day of violation and the affected facility could be forced to cease operations. we could also incur other significant costs, such as cleanup costs or claims by third parties, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. although we believe that our environmental practices, including waste handling and disposal practices, are in material compliance with applicable laws, future claims or violations, or changes in environmental laws, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. state regulation of insurance-related products laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate increases, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. certain of our subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, or other cash transfers to humana inc., our parent company, and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. 29 table of contents although minimum required levels of equity are largely based on premium volume, product mix, and the quality of assets held, minimum requirements can vary significantly at the state level. our state regulated subsidiaries had aggregate statutory capital and surplus of approximately $4.7 billion and $4.3 billion as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which exceeded aggregate minimum regulatory requirements. the amount of dividends that may be paid to our parent company in 2012 without prior approval by state regulatory authorities is approximately $970 million in the aggregate. this compares to dividends that were able to be paid in 2011 without prior regulatory approval of approximately $740 million. any failure to manage operating costs could hamper profitability. the level of our operating costs impacts our profitability. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage such expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, additional investment in new products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs), greater emphasis on small group and individual health insurance products, investments in health and well-being product offerings, expansion into new specialty markets, acquisitions, new taxes and assessments, including the new non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments under health insurance reform legislation, such as the three-year commercial reinsurance fee, and implementation of regulatory requirements may occur from time to time. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contain our operating costs in line with our membership and this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. in 2011, we acquired md care, inc. and anvita, inc., and in 2010, we acquired concentra inc. the failure to successfully integrate acquired entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of our acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. we may also be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. these providers may share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations, or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician 30 table of contents or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care physicians for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month fee under which physicians are paid an amount to provide all required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our pharmacy business competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, and internet companies as well as other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state board of pharmacy. in addition, some states have proposed laws to regulate online pharmacies, and we may be subject to this legislation if it is passed. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations. pharmacies must register with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-order pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose our pharmacy subsidiary to civil and criminal penalties. changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. recent events have raised 31 table of contents uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. regulators have conducted investigations into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our mail-order pharmacy business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our mail-order and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries is restricted. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. these subsidiaries generally are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from our parent company. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts, or, in some states, any amount. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our 7.20% and 8.15% senior notes are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the notes are downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) and contain a change of control provision that may require us to purchase the notes under certain circumstances. in addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. 32 table of contents historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under recent regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would increase, our sales and earnings could decrease, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. changes in economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the u.s. economy continues to experience a period of slow economic growth and high unemployment. we have closely monitored the impact that this volatile economy is having on our operations. workforce reductions have caused corresponding membership losses in our fully-insured commercial group business. continued weakness in the u.s. economy, and any continued high unemployment, may materially adversely affect our medical membership, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. additionally, the continued weakness of the u.s. economy has adversely affected the budget of individual states and of the federal government. this could result in attempts to reduce payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military services, and medicaid programs, and could result in an increase in taxes and assessments on our activities. although we could attempt to mitigate or cover our exposure from such increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to mitigate or cover all of such costs which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in addition, general inflationary pressures may affect the costs of medical and other care, increasing the costs of claims expenses submitted to us. the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than- temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. 33 table of contents certain european union member states have total fiscal obligations greater than their respective gross domestic products. this imbalance has caused investor concern over such countries ability to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth. currently, the european debt crisis has caused credit spreads to widen and liquidity to tighten in the fixed income debt markets. a weaker european economy may transcend europe, cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of european financial institutions and the stability of european member economies, and likewise adversely affect u.s.-based financial institutions, the stability of the global financial markets, and the u.s. economy. we have no direct exposure to sovereign issuances of spain, italy, ireland, portugal, or greece. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures in the foreseeable future, and to refinance or repay debt. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. given the current economic climate, our stock and the stocks of other companies in the insurance industry may be increasingly subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. over the past three years, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility. company-specific issues and market developments generally in the insurance industry and in the regulatory environment may have contributed to this volatility. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to materially fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: the enactment of, and the potential for additional, health insurance reform; general economic conditions; quarterly variations in operating results; natural disasters, terrorist attacks and epidemics; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; press releases or negative publicity relating to our competitors or us or relating to trends in our markets; regulatory changes and adverse outcomes from litigation and government or regulatory investigations; sales of stock by insiders; changes in our credit ratings; limitations on premium levels or the ability to raise premiums on existing policies; increases in minimum capital, reserves, and other financial strength requirements; and limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock. these factors could materially reduce our stock price. in addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. 34 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 82 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 129 item 9a. controls and procedures 129 item 9b. other information 130 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 131 item 11. executive compensation 134 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 134 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 134 item 14. principal accounting fees and services 134 part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules 135 signatures and certifications 146 table of contents forward-looking statements some of the statements under business, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and elsewhere in this report may contain forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. these forward-looking statements are made within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act. we intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. we have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events, trends and uncertainties. these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the information discussed under the section entitled risk factors in this report. in making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding our business or results. our business is highly complicated, regulated and competitive with many different factors affecting results. part i item 1. business general headquartered in louisville, kentucky, humana inc. and its subsidiaries, referred to throughout this document as we, us, our, the company or humana, is a leading health care company that offers a wide range of insurance products and health and wellness services that incorporate an integrated approach to lifelong well-being. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately 11.2 million members in our medical benefit plans, as well as approximately 7.3 million members in our specialty products. during 2011, 76% of our premiums and services revenue were derived from contracts with the federal government, including 16% related to our medicare advantage contracts in florida with the centers for medicare and medicaid services, or cms, and 10% related to our military services contracts. under our medicare advantage cms contracts in florida, we provide health insurance coverage to approximately 381,300 members as of december 31, 2011. humana inc. was organized as a delaware corporation in 1964. our principal executive offices are located at 500 west main street, louisville, kentucky 40202, the telephone number at that address is (502) 580-1000, and our website address is www.humana.com. we have made available free of charge through the investor relations section of our web site our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission. this annual report on form 10-k, or 2011 form 10-k, contains both historical and forward-looking information. see item 1a. risk factors in this 2011 form 10-k for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. health insurance reform in march 2010, the president signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health insurance reform legislation) which enact significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. there are many significant provisions of the legislation that will require additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business, which we expect to occur over the next several years. certain significant provisions of the health insurance reform legislation include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to medicare 3 table of contents advantage premiums, the establishment of state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, an annual insurance industry premium-based assessment, and a three-year commercial reinsurance fee. implementation dates of the health insurance reform legislation vary from september 30, 2010 to as late as 2018. the health insurance reform legislation is discussed more fully in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled health insurance reform. 2011 business segment realignment during the first quarter of 2011, we realigned our business segments to reflect our evolving business model. as a result, we reassessed and changed our operating and reportable segments in the first quarter of 2011 to reflect management view of the business and to align our external financial reporting with our new operating and internal financial reporting model. historical segment information has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the effect of this change. our new reportable segments and the basis for determining those segments are discussed below. business segments we currently manage our business with three reportable segments: retail, employer group, and health and well-being services. in addition, we include businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles in an other businesses category. these segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer to assess performance and allocate resources. the retail segment consists of medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, marketed directly to individuals. the employer group segment consists of medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, as well as administrative services only products marketed to employer groups. the health and well-being services segment includes services offered to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including primary care, pharmacy, integrated wellness, and home care services. the other businesses category consists of our military services, primarily our tricare south region contract, medicaid, and closed-block long-term care businesses as well as our contract with cms to administer the limited income newly eligible transition program, or the li-net program. the results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. transactions between reportable segments consist of sales of services rendered by our health and well-being services segment, primarily pharmacy and behavioral health services, to our retail and employer group customers. intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at fair value and eliminated in consolidation. members served by our segments often utilize the same provider networks, enabling us in some instances to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. our segments also share indirect costs and assets. as a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. we allocate most operating expenses to our segments. assets and certain corporate income and expenses are not allocated to the segments, including the portion of investment income not supporting segment operations, interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate expenses. these items are managed at the corporate level. these corporate amounts are reported separately from our reportable segments and included with intersegment eliminations. 4 table of contents our products our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. these products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. health maintenance organizations, or hmos, generally require a referral from the member primary care physician before seeing certain specialty physicians. preferred provider organizations, or ppos, provide members the freedom to choose a health care provider without requiring a referral. however ppos generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the ppo network. point of service, or pos, plans combine the advantages of hmo plans with the flexibility of ppo plans. in general, pos plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan network or outside the network. in addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy, primary care, integrated wellness, and home care services. the discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. our retail segment products this segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the retail segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2011: retail segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: individual medicare advantage $ 18,100 49.6 % individual medicare stand-alone pdp 2,317 6.4 % total individual medicare 20,417 56.0 % individual commercial 861 2.4 % individual specialty 124 0.3 % total premiums 21,402 58.7 % services 16 0.0 % total premiums and services revenue $ 21,418 58.7 % individual medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 25 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. we have a geographically diverse membership base that provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. we believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and 5 table of contents part b coverage under original medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as original medicare. as an alternative to original medicare, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under original medicare. our medicare advantage plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. individual medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of original medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, disease management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on january 1. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations, hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in most cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. our medicare pffs plans generally have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to original medicare payment rates. on january 1, 2011, most of our members enrolled in pffs plans transitioned to networked-based ppo type products due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. at december 31, 2011, we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 1,640,300 individual medicare advantage members. under our individual medicare advantage contracts with cms in florida, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 362,100 members. these florida 6 table of contents contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $5.6 billion, which represented approximately 31% of our individual medicare advantage premiums revenue, or 15% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2011. our hmo, ppo, and pffs products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage products have been renewed for 2012, and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2012 have been approved. individual medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. in october 2010, we announced the lowest premium national stand-alone medicare part d prescription drug plan co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., the humana walmart-preferred rx plan. this plan was first offered for the 2011 plan year. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled medicare part d provisions. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp products have been renewed for 2012, and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2012 have been approved. medicare and medicaid dual eligible medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. there were approximately 9 million dual eligible enrollees in 2011. these dual eligibles may enroll in a privately-offered medicare advantage product, but may also receive assistance from medicaid for medicaid benefits, such as nursing home care and/or assistance with medicare premiums and cost sharing. as of december 31, 2011, we served approximately 242,000 dual eligible members in our medicare advantage plans and approximately 482,000 dual eligible members in our stand-alone prescription drug plans. individual commercial coverage our individual health plans, marketed under the humanaone &reg; brand include offerings designed to promote wellness and engage consumers. humanaone plans are designed specifically for self-employed entrepreneurs, small-business employees, part-time workers, students, and early retirees and include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices, as well as humanavitality &reg; , our wellness and loyalty rewards program. our humanaone plans primarily are offered as ppo plans in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. this individual product includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. the humanaone plans can be further customized with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a broad portfolio of financial protection products. 7 table of contents our employer group segment products this segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the employer group segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2011: employer group segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: fully-insured commercial group $ 4,782 13.1 % group medicare advantage 3,152 8.6 % group medicare stand-alone pdp 8 0.0 % total group medicare 3,160 8.6 % group specialty 935 2.6 % total premiums 8,877 24.3 % services 356 1.0 % total premiums and services revenue $ 9,233 25.3 % employer group commercial coverage our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through hmo, ppo, or pos plans, or self-funded basis. our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. as with our individual commercial products, the employer group offerings include humanavitality wellness offerings. our administrative services only, or aso, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured hmo, ppo, or pos products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, more than half of our aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. as with individual commercial policies, employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a broad portfolio of financial protection products. group medicare advantage and medicare stand-alone pdp we offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace medicare wrap or medicare supplement products with medicare advantage or stand-alone pdps from humana. these products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an employer post-retirement benefit structure. 8 table of contents our health and well-being services segment products this segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that promote health and well-being. these services are sold primarily to other humana businesses, as well as external health plan members and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. our intersegment revenue is described in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. prior to 2009, under interest rate swap agreements, we exchanged the fixed interest rate under all of our senior notes for a variable interest rate based on libor using interest rate swap agreements. we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements in 2008, fixing the average interest rate under our senior notes at 6.08%. we may re-enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either libor plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2011 or december 31, 2010. interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with a weighted average s&amp;p credit rating of aa- at december 31, 2011. our net unrealized position improved $328 million from a net unrealized gain position of $197 million at december 31, 2010 to a net unrealized gain position of $525 million at december 31, 2011. at december 31, 2011, we had gross unrealized losses of $17 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates and tighter liquidity conditions in the current markets than when the securities were purchased, and as such, there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2011. while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of 80 table of contents our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 3.9 years as of december 31, 2011 and 4.0 years as of december 31, 2010. based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $420 million. we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200, and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2011 and 2010. our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may affect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points once, have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points four times, and have changed by less than 100 basis points five times. increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in millions) as of december 31, 2011 investment income $ (26 ) $ (21 ) $ (11 ) $ 35 $ 69 $ 104 interest expense (a) 0 0 0 0 0 0 pretax $ (26 ) $ (21 ) $ (11 ) $ 35 $ 69 $ 104 as of december 31, 2010 investment income $ (31 ) $ (20 ) $ (10 ) $ 36 $ 71 $ 107 interest expense (a) 0 0 0 0 0 0 pretax $ (31 ) $ (20 ) $ (10 ) $ 36 $ 71 $ 107 (a) the interest rate under our senior notes is fixed. there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2011 or december 31, 2010. 81 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors in this 2012 form 10-k for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. health insurance reform in march 2010, the president signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health insurance reform legislation) which enact significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. there are many provisions of the legislation that will require additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business, which we expect to occur over the next several years. certain significant provisions of the health insurance reform legislation include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to medicare advantage premiums, the establishment of federally facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs 3 table of contents designed to spread risk among insurers, an annual insurance industry premium-based assessment, and a three-year commercial reinsurance fee. implementation dates of the health insurance reform legislation began in september 2010 and continue through 2018. the health insurance reform legislation is discussed more fully in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled health insurance reform. business segments we manage our business with three reportable segments: retail, employer group, and health and well-being services. in addition, the other businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles. these segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer to assess performance and allocate resources. the retail segment consists of medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, marketed directly to individuals. the employer group segment consists of medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, as well as administrative services only products marketed to employer groups. the health and well-being services segment includes services offered to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including provider services, pharmacy, integrated wellness, and home care services. the other businesses category consists of our military services, primarily our tricare south region contract, medicaid, and closed-block long-term care businesses as well as our contract with cms to administer the limited income newly eligible transition program, or the li-net program. the results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. transactions between reportable segments consist of sales of services rendered by our health and well-being services segment, primarily pharmacy, behavioral health, and provider services, to our retail and employer group customers. intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at fair value and eliminated in consolidation. members served by our segments often utilize the same provider networks, enabling us in some instances to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. our segments also share indirect costs and assets. as a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. we allocate most operating expenses to our segments. assets and certain corporate income and expenses are not allocated to the segments, including the portion of investment income not supporting segment operations, interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate expenses. these items are managed at the corporate level. these corporate amounts are reported separately from our reportable segments and included with intersegment eliminations. our products our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. these products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. health maintenance organizations, or hmos, generally require a referral from the member primary care provider before seeing certain specialty physicians. preferred provider organizations, or ppos, provide members the freedom to choose a health care provider without requiring a referral. however ppos generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the ppo network. point of service, or pos, plans combine the advantages of hmo plans with the flexibility of ppo plans. in general, pos plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan network or outside the network. in addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy, provider services, integrated wellness, and home care services. at the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, 4 table of contents and sophisticated data analytics. our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused. the model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. the discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. our retail segment products this segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the retail segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2012: retail segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: individual medicare advantage $ 20,788 53.7 % individual medicare stand-alone pdp 2,587 6.7 % total individual medicare 23,375 60.4 % individual commercial 1,004 2.6 % individual specialty 171 0.4 % total premiums 24,550 63.4 % services 24 0.1 % total premiums and services revenue $ 24,574 63.5 % individual medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 25 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. we have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. we believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under original medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as original medicare. as an alternative to original medicare, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under original medicare. our medicare advantage plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. 5 table of contents individual medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of original medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. on january 1, 2011, most of our members enrolled in pffs plans transitioned to networked-based ppo type products due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. our medicare pffs plans generally have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to original medicare payment rates. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. at december 31, 2012, we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 1,927,600 individual medicare advantage members, including approximately 384,200 members in florida. these florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $5.9 billion, which represented approximately 28% of our individual medicare advantage premiums revenue, or 15% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2012. our hmo and ppo products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage products have been renewed for 2013, and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2013 have been approved. 6 table of contents individual medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d, including a pdp plan co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., or the humana-walmart plan. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our pdp bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled medicare part d provisions. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by august 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp products have been renewed for 2013, and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2013 have been approved. medicare and medicaid dual eligible medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. there were approximately 9 million dual eligible individuals in the united states in 2012. these dual eligibles may enroll in a privately-offered medicare advantage product, but may also receive assistance from medicaid for medicaid benefits, such as nursing home care and/or assistance with medicare premiums and cost sharing. as of december 31, 2012, we served approximately 285,500 dual eligible members in our medicare advantage plans and approximately 697,300 dual eligible members in our stand-alone prescription drug plans. during 2012, we were successful in our bids for medicaid business in ohio, illinois, and kentucky, including dual eligible beneficiaries in both ohio and illinois. we partnered with caresource management group company to serve the ohio and kentucky individuals under a march 2012 strategic alliance agreement. individual commercial coverage our individual health plans, marketed under the humanaone &reg; brand, include offerings designed to promote wellness and engage consumers. humanaone plans are designed specifically for self-employed entrepreneurs, small-business employees, part-time workers, students, and early retirees and include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices, as well as humanavitality &reg; , our wellness and loyalty rewards program. our humanaone plans primarily are offered as ppo plans in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. this individual product includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. the humanaone plans can be further customized with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a broad portfolio of financial protection products. 7 table of contents our employer group segment products this segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the employer group segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2012: employer group segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: fully-insured commercial group $ 4,996 12.9 % group medicare advantage 4,064 10.5 % group medicare stand-alone pdp 8 0.0 % total group medicare 4,072 10.5 % group specialty 1,070 2.8 % total premiums 10,138 26.2 % services 358 0.9 % total premiums and services revenue $ 10,496 27.1 % employer group commercial coverage our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through hmo, ppo, or pos plans, or self-funded basis. our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. as with our individual commercial products, the employer group offerings include humanavitality &reg; , our wellness and loyalty reward program. our administrative services only, or aso, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured hmo, ppo, or pos products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, more than half of our aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. as with individual commercial policies, employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a broad portfolio of financial protection products. group medicare advantage and medicare stand-alone pdp we offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace medicare wrap or medicare supplement products with medicare advantage or stand-alone pdps from humana. these products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an employer post-retirement benefit structure. 8 table of contents our health and well-being services segment products this segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that promote health and well-being. these services are sold primarily to other humana businesses, as well as external health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. our intersegment revenue is described in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. the following table presents our services revenue for the health and well-being services segment by line of business for the year ended december 31, 2012: health and well- being services segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) intersegment revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 11,352 n/a provider services 214 n/a integrated wellness services 219 n/a home care services 167 n/a total intersegment revenue $ 11,952 external services revenue: provider services $ 967 2.5 % home care services 40 0.1 % pharmacy solutions 16 0.0 % integrated wellness services 13 0.0 % total external services revenue $ 1,036 2.6 % n/a not applicable pharmacy solutions humana pharmacy solutions &reg; , or hps, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. hps also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through rightsourcerx &reg; , as well as research services. provider services our subsidiary, concentra inc. &reg; , acquired in december 2010, delivers primary care, occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness services to employees and the general public through its operation of medical centers and worksite medical facilities. our cac medical centers, or cac, in south florida operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers staffed by primary care providers and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry. we acquired metropolitan health networks, inc., or metropolitan, on december 21, 2012, and we acquired a noncontrolling equity interest in mcci holdings, llc, or mcci, on october 29, 2012. metropolitan and mcci are medical services organizations, or msos, that coordinate medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries and medicaid recipients, primarily in florida and texas. the metropolitan and mcci transactions are expected to provide us with components of a successful integrated care delivery model that has demonstrated scalability to new markets. a substantial portion of the revenues for both metropolitan and mcci are derived from services provided to humana medicare advantage members under capitation contracts with our health 9 table of contents plans. in addition, metropolitan and mcci provide services to medicare advantage and medicaid members under capitation contracts with third party health plans. under these capitation agreements with humana and third party health plans, metropolitan and mcci assume financial risk associated with these medicare advantage and medicaid members. integrated wellness services corphealth, inc. (d/b/a lifesynch &reg; ), a humana subsidiary, offers care management services through an innovative suite of integrated products, integrating behavioral health services with wellness programs, and employee assistance programs and work-life services. lifesynch integrated wellness services include hummingbird coaching &reg; , a wellness coaching company that offers a comprehensive turn-key coaching program, an enhancement to a medically based coaching protocol and a platform that makes coaching programs more efficient. humanavitality, llc, a joint venture with discovery holdings ltd., provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual needs and wants. humanavitality &reg; became available to certain of our members in mid-2011. a key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an actuarially sound incentive program. home care services home care services include the operations of seniorbridge family companies, inc., or seniorbridge, acquired july 6, 2012, and humana cares &reg; . as a chronic-care provider of in-home care for seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. we focus our deployment of these services in geographies, such as florida, with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions. other businesses products and services offered by our other businesses are described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for our other businesses for the year ended december 31, 2012: other businesses premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: military services $ 1,017 2.6 % medicaid 1,003 2.6 % li-net 266 0.7 % closed-block long-term care 35 0.1 % total premiums 2,321 6.0 % services 308 0.8 % total premiums and services revenue $ 2,629 6.8 % military services under our tricare south region contract with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military 10 table of contents personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. currently, three health benefit options are available to tricare beneficiaries. in addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in an hmo-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a ppo. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the dod. on april 1, 2012, we began delivering services under a new tricare south region contract that the department of defense tricare management activity, or tma, awarded to us on february 25, 2011. under the new contract, we provide administrative services, including offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, claim processing, customer service, enrollment, and other services, while the federal government retains all of the risk of the cost of health benefits. accordingly, we account for revenues under the new contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. our current tricare south region contract covers approximately 3,123,900 eligible beneficiaries as of december 31, 2012 in florida, georgia, south carolina, mississippi, alabama, tennessee, louisiana, arkansas, texas, oklahoma, and kentucky (the fort campbell area only). the south region is one of the three regions in the united states as defined by the department of defense. we have subcontracted with third parties to provide selected administration and specialty services under the contract. the new 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2017, is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year during its term at the government option. the tma has notified us of its intent to exercise its option to extend the tricare south region contract through march 31, 2014. our previous tricare south region contract that expired on march 31, 2012, provided a financial interest in the underlying health care cost; therefore, we reported revenues on a gross basis. we shared the risk with the federal government for the cost of health benefits incurred under our previous contract, earning more revenue or incurring additional cost based on the variance of actual health care costs from an annually negotiated target health care cost. the tricare south region contract represented approximately 93% of total military services premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2012. medicaid medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to facilitate the delivery of health care services primarily to low-income residents. each electing state develops, through a state-specific regulatory agency, a medicaid managed care initiative that must be approved by cms. cms requires that medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. states currently either use a formal proposal process in which they review many bidders before selecting one or award individual contracts to qualified bidders who apply for entry to the program. in either case, the contractual relationship with a state generally is for a one-year period. under these contracts, we receive a fixed monthly payment from a government agency for which we are required to provide health insurance coverage to enrolled members. due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a managed care product in their medicaid programs. our medicaid business consists of contracts in puerto rico and florida, with the vast majority in puerto rico. li-net in 2010, we began to administer cms li-net program. this program allows individuals who receive medicare low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a medicare part d plan. cms temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both medicare and medicaid into the li-net program, and subsequently transitions each member into a medicare part d plan that may or may not be a humana medicare plan. 11 table of contents closed block of long-term care insurance we have a closed block of approximately 34,000 long-term care policies associated with our acquisition of kmg america corporation in 2007. long-term care policies are intended to protect the insured from the cost of long-term care services including those provided by nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and adult day care as well as home health care services. no new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2012, by market and product: retail segment employer group segment (in thousands) individual medicare advantage individual medicare stand- alone pdp individual commercial fully- insured commercial group group medicare advantage and stand- alone pdp aso other businesses total percent of total texas 153.4 223.6 77.0 289.5 53.2 122.2 0 918.9 7.6 % florida 384.2 193.0 78.7 147.9 21.4 37.8 0 863.0 7.1 % kentucky 44.6 55.2 22.1 98.6 34.0 507.7 0 762.2 6.3 % illinois 70.9 101.8 40.5 153.3 5.9 131.7 (a) 0 504.1 4.2 % ohio 53.3 103.9 6.3 50.0 141.6 146.5 0 501.6 4.1 % wisconsin 50.8 57.9 14.0 98.0 12.5 138.7 0 371.9 3.1 % california 25.6 310.5 4.1 0.2 0.1 0 0 340.5 2.8 % georgia 63.3 62.4 54.4 96.8 7.6 44.2 0 328.7 2.7 % missouri/kansas 79.5 147.0 14.4 44.2 5.3 8.0 0 298.4 2.5 % tennessee 101.9 76.6 18.2 39.8 2.0 32.0 0 270.5 2.2 % louisiana 105.9 35.9 16.4 44.1 7.7 29.7 0 239.7 2.0 % north carolina 70.4 107.3 5.9 0.1 0.6 0 0 184.3 1.5 % michigan 44.5 96.1 10.5 12.4 12.1 2.8 0 178.4 1.5 % indiana 44.8 78.2 6.3 21.3 2.0 24.7 0 177.3 1.5 % virginia 75.5 83.9 4.0 0 2.5 0 0 165.9 1.4 % arizona 44.9 44.7 16.0 24.5 1.6 5.3 0 137.0 1.1 % colorado 25.6 45.4 37.8 18.3 6.6 0.4 0 134.1 1.1 % military services 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,123.9 3,123.9 25.8 % medicaid and other 0 0 0 0 0 0 610.8 610.8 5.1 % li-net 0 0 0 0 0 0 67.1 67.1 0.6 % others 488.5 1,162.2 94.8 72.8 58.5 33.7 0 1,910.5 15.8 % totals 1,927.6 2,985.6 521.4 1,211.8 375.2 1,265.4 3,801.8 12,088.8 100.0 % (a) includes 27,700 medicare advantage aso members. provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we own or with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. 12 table of contents we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into various care management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. we have available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. we also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. the terms of our contracts with hospitals and physicians may also vary between medicare and commercial business. a significant portion of our medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to medicare reimbursement levels and methodologies. the budget control act of 2011 established a twelve-member joint committee of congress known as the joint select committee on deficit reduction to propose legislation to reduce the united states federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. the failure of the joint select committee on deficit reduction to achieve a targeted deficit reduction by december 23, 2011 triggered an automatic reduction, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. although these reductions are scheduled to take effect on march 1, 2013, at this time it is unclear how this automatic reduction may be applied to various medicare healthcare programs or the timing of when such reductions may actually begin. we expect that if such reductions were to occur, there would be a corresponding substantial reduction in our obligations to providers. due to the uncertainty around the timing or application of any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we could completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs applied by the budget control act of 2011. capitation for some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership, primarily hmo. under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated member. 13 table of contents we believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery model at the core of our strategy. our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries, including metropolitan, an mso acquired december 21, 2012. at december 31, 2012, approximately 1,131,700 members, or 9.4% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts, including 511,700 individual medicare advantage members, or 26.5% of our total individual medicare advantage membership. physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we typically process all claims and monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we delegated claim processing functions under capitation arrangements covering approximately 124,500 hmo members, including 73,500 individual medicare advantage members, at december 31, 2012, with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating the members health care benefits. capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the underlying claims experience was approximately $633 million, or 2.0% of total benefits expense, for the year ended december 31, 2012. we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies, as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. providers participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses; review of their malpractice liability claims histories; review of their board certifications, if applicable; and review of applicable quality information. a committee, composed of a peer group of providers, reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care, and the utilization review accreditation commission, or urac. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa performs reviews of our compliance with standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in most of our commercial, medicare and medicaid hmo/pos markets with enough history and membership, except puerto rico, and for many of our ppo markets. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. 14 table of contents at december 31, 2012, we employed approximately 1,700 sales representatives, as well as approximately 900 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of individual medicare and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products in our retail segment, including making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we also market our individual medicare products via a strategic alliance with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart. this alliance includes stationing humana representatives in certain wal-mart stores, sam club locations, and neighborhood markets across the country providing an opportunity to enroll medicare eligible individuals in person. in addition, we market our individual medicare and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products through licensed independent brokers and agents. for our medicare products, commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure, regulated in structure and amount by cms. for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products, we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. in our employer group segment, individuals may become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer or group exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. we also sell group medicare advantage products through large employers. we use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, and employees to sell our group products. many of our larger employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products. underwriting through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determine the risk we are willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups must meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. small group laws in some states have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged based upon assessment of health conditions. beginning in 2014, the health insurance reform legislation requires all individual and group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments. underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos, including hmos and ppos owned by blue cross/blue shield plans. many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in the section entitled risk factors in this 2012 form 10-k. 15 table of contents government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation health care system. our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see the section entitled risk factors in this 2012 form 10-k. certain other services captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service. employees as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately 43,400 employees and approximately 2,400 medical professionals working under management agreements between concentra and affiliated physician-owned associations. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, if we are unable to implement clinical initiatives to provide a better health care experience for our members, lower costs and appropriately document the risk profile of our members, or if our estimates of benefits expense are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefits expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. these estimates, however involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in payment patterns and medical cost trends. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services, including prescription drugs; increased cost of such services; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including any that result from health insurance reform legislation. key to our operational strategy is the implementation of clinical initiatives that we believe provide a better health care experience for our members, lower these costs, and appropriately document the risk profile of our members. our profitability and competitiveness depend in large part on our ability to appropriately manage health care costs through, among other things, the application of medical management programs such as our chronic care management program. 17 table of contents in addition, we also estimate costs associated with long-duration insurance policies including life insurance, annuities, health, and long-term care policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. these future policy benefit reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal and maintenance expense assumptions from published actuarial tables, as modified based upon actual experience. the assumptions used to determine the liability for future policy benefits are established and locked in at the time each contract is acquired and would only change if our expected future experience deteriorated to the point that the level of the liability, together with the present value of future gross premiums, are not adequate to provide for future expected policy benefits. future policy benefits payable include $1.1 billion at december 31, 2012 associated with a closed block of long-term care policies acquired in connection with the november 30, 2007 kmg america corporation acquisition. long-term care policies provide for long-duration coverage and, therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. the risk of a deviation of the actual interest rates, morbidity rates, and mortality rates from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care policies. we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care policies, and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. however, to the extent premium rate increases or loss experience vary from our acquisition date assumptions, additional future adjustments to reserves could be required. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program. we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform, and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in medicare products. our future performance depends in large part upon our management team ability to execute our strategy to position us for the future. this strategy includes opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare programs, including our hmo and ppo products, as well as our stand-alone pdp products and the successful 18 table of contents implementation of our integrated care delivery model. we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. over the last few years we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we are offering both the stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plan with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer the medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare products is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare products in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in medicare products. there is significant concentration of our revenues in medicare products, with approximately 72% of our total premiums and services revenue in 2012 generated from our medicare products. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. recently enacted health insurance reform legislation created a federal medicare-medicaid coordination office to serve dual eligibles. this medicare-medicaid coordination office has initiated a series of state demonstration projects to experiment with better coordination of care between medicare and medicaid. depending upon the results of those demonstration projects, cms may change the way in which dual eligibles are serviced. if we are unable to implement our strategic initiatives to address the dual eligibles opportunity, or if our initiatives are not successful at attracting or retaining dual eligible members, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial products, such as aso and individual products, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including humanavitality and other wellness products, expansion of our specialty products such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, the adoption of new technologies, development of adjacent businesses, and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including outsourcing certain business functions and implementing our integrated care delivery model, that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have reduced the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate 19 table of contents pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. our business plans also include becoming a quality e-business organization by enhancing interactions with customers, brokers, agents, providers and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology. our strategy includes sales and distribution of health benefit products through the internet, and implementation of advanced self-service capabilities, for internal and external stakeholders. a cybersecurity attack that bypasses our information technology, or it, security systems causing a security breach may lead to a material disruption of our it business systems and/or the loss of business information. if a cybersecurity attack were to be successful, we could be materially adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property, operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our it systems, or negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, brokers, agents, providers, and other stakeholders. there can be no assurance that our it process will successfully improve existing systems, develop new systems to support our expanding operations, integrate new systems, protect our proprietary information, defend against cybersecurity attacks, or improve service levels. in addition, there can be no assurance that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business may be materially adversely impacted by cms adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses. cms has adopted a new coding set for diagnoses, commonly known as icd-10, which significantly expands the number of codes utilized. we may be required to incur significant expenses in implementing the new coding set by the current compliance date of october 1, 2014. if we do not adequately implement the new coding set, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. we are involved in various legal actions and governmental and internal investigations, any of which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are or may become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, securities laws claims, and tort claims. 20 table of contents in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management, and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers alleged malpractice; claims arising from any adverse medical consequences resulting from our recommendations about the appropriateness of providers proposed medical treatment plans for patients; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that we, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government including, among other allegations, resulting from coding and review practices under the medicare risk-adjustment model; claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy; and professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these matters with certainty. 21 table of contents as a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. these programs accounted for approximately 78% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2012. these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2012, under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 384,200 medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 15% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2012. the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2012, our military services business primarily consisted of the tricare south region contract which covers approximately 3,123,900 beneficiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2012, premiums and services revenue associated with the tricare south region contract accounted for approximately 3% of our total premiums and services revenue. on april 1, 2012, we began delivering services under the new tricare south region contract that the department of defense tricare management activity, or tma, awarded to us on february 25, 2011. the new 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2017, is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year during its term at the government option. the tma has notified us of its intent to exercise its option to extend the tricare south region contract through march 31, 2014. the loss of the tricare south region contract may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2012, under our contracts with the puerto rico health insurance administration, or prhia, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 531,500 medicaid members in puerto rico. these contracts accounted for approximately 2% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2012. effective october 1, 2010, as amended in may 2011, the prhia awarded us three contracts for the east, southeast, and southwest regions for a three-year term through june 30, 2013. the loss of these contracts or significant changes in the puerto rico medicaid program as a result of legislative action, including reductions in premium payments to us, or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. as a government contractor, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that the government contractor submitted false claims to the government. litigation of this nature is filed under seal to allow the government an opportunity to investigate and to decide if it wishes to intervene and assume control of the litigation. if the government does not intervene, the lawsuit is unsealed, and the individual may continue to prosecute the action on his or her own. cms uses a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare advantage, or ma, plans according to health severity. the risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. under this model, rates paid to ma plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process that bases our prospective payments on a comparison of our beneficiaries risk scores, derived from medical diagnoses, to those enrolled in the government original medicare program. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all ma plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to 22 table of contents cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to ma plans. we generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to cms as the basis for our payment received from cms under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. we also rely on providers to appropriately document all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. cms is continuing to perform audits of various companies selected ma contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. these audits are referred to herein as risk-adjustment data validation audits, or radv audits. radv audits review medical records in an attempt to validate provider medical record documentation and coding practices which influence the calculation of premium payments to ma plans. on february 24, 2012, cms released a notice of final payment error calculation methodology for part c medicare advantage risk adjustment data validation (radv) contract-level audits . the final payment error calculation methodology provides that, in calculating the economic impact of audit results for an ma contract, if any, the results of the audit sample will be extrapolated to the entire ma contract based upon a comparison to benchmark audit data in the government fee-for-service program. this comparison to the government program benchmark audit is necessary to determine the economic impact, if any, of audit results because the government program data set, including any attendant errors that are present in that data set, provides the basis for ma plans risk adjustment to payment rates. the final methodology, including the first application of extrapolated audit results to determine audit settlements, is expected to be applied to the next round of radv contract level audits to be conducted on 2011 premium payments. selected ma contracts will be notified of an audit at some point after the close of the final reconciliation for the payment year being audited. the final reconciliation occurs in august of the calendar year following the payment year. estimated audit settlements are recorded as a reduction of premiums revenue in our consolidated statements of income, based upon available information. during 2012, we completed internal contract level audits of certain contracts based on the radv audit methodology prescribed by cms. included in these internal contract level audits was an audit of our private fee-for-service business which we used to represent a proxy of the benchmark audit data in the government fee-for-service program which has not yet been released. we based our accrual of estimated audit settlements for contract years 2011 (the first year that application of extrapolated audit results is applicable) and 2012 on the results of these internal contract level audits. estimates derived from these results were not material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. however, as indicated, we are awaiting additional guidance from cms regarding the benchmark audit data in the government fee-for-service program and the identification of our specific ma contracts that will be selected for audit. accordingly, we cannot determine whether such audits will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premiums revenue related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net payable of $356 million at december 31, 2012. 23 table of contents reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms portion of claims costs which exceed the member out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment which we would have otherwise received as a low-income or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. the budget control act of 2011, enacted on august 2, 2011, increased the united states debt ceiling conditioned on deficit reductions to be achieved over the next ten years. the budget control act of 2011 also established a twelve-member joint committee of congress known as the joint select committee on deficit reduction to propose legislation to reduce the united states federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. the failure of the joint select committee on deficit reduction to achieve a targeted deficit reduction by december 23, 2011 triggered an automatic reduction, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. although these reductions are scheduled to take effect on march 1, 2013, at this time it is unclear how this automatic reduction may be applied to various medicare healthcare programs or the timing of when such reductions may actually begin. we expect that if such reductions were to occur, there would be a corresponding substantial reduction in our obligations to providers. due to the uncertainty around the timing or application of any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we could completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs applied by the budget control act of 2011. we are also subject to various other governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorneys general, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. the outcome of any current or future governmental or internal investigations cannot be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. nevertheless, it is reasonably possible that any such outcome of litigation, penalties, fines or other sanctions could be substantial, and the outcome of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. certain of these matters could also affect our reputation. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. 24 table of contents recently enacted health insurance reform, including the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs by, among other things, requiring a minimum benefit ratio on insured products (and particularly how the ratio may apply to medicare plans), lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with a non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill; and cash flows. in addition, if the new non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments, including a three-year commercial reinsurance fee, were imposed as enacted, and if we are unable to adjust our business model to address these new taxes and assessments, such as through the reduction of our operating costs or adjustments to premium pricing or benefit design, there can be no assurance that the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in march 2010, the president signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health insurance reform legislation) which enact significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. while regulations and interpretive guidance on some provisions of the health insurance reform legislation have been issued to date by the department of health and human services, or hhs, the department of labor, the treasury department, and the national association of insurance commissioners, there are many provisions of the legislation that will require additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business, which we expect to occur over the next several years. the provisions of the health insurance reform legislation include, among others, imposing significant new non-deductible federal premium taxes and other assessments on health insurers, limiting medicare advantage payment rates, stipulating a prescribed minimum ratio for the amount of premiums revenue to be expended on medical costs for insured products (and particularly how the ratio may apply to medicare advantage and prescription drug plans), additional mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, requirements that limit the ability of health plans to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, and heightened scrutiny by state and federal regulators of our business practices, including our medicare bid and pricing practices. the health insurance reform legislation also specifies benefit design guidelines, limits rating and pricing practices, encourages additional competition (including potential incentives for new market entrants), establishes federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges for individuals and small employers (with up to 100 employees) coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, and expands eligibility for medicaid programs. in addition, the law will increase federal oversight of health plan premium rates and could adversely affect our ability to appropriately adjust health plan premiums on a timely basis. financing for these reforms will come, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us and other health plans and individuals beginning in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. implementation dates of the provisions of the health insurance reform legislation began in september 2010 and continue through 2018. implementing regulations and related interpretive guidance continue to be issued on several significant provisions of the health insurance reform legislation. congress may also withhold the funding necessary to implement the health insurance reform legislation, or may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the health insurance reform legislation will change the way we do business, potentially impacting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels. in particular, implementing regulations and related guidance are forthcoming on various aspects of the minimum benefit ratio requirement applicability to medicare, including aggregation, credibility thresholds, and its application to prescription drug plans. the response of other companies to health insurance reform legislation and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could cause meaningful disruption in the local health care markets. it is reasonably possible that the health insurance reform 25 table of contents legislation and related regulations, as well as future legislative changes, in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill; and our cash flows. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health insurance reform legislation, our business may be materially adversely affected. in addition, if the new non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments, including a three-year commercial reinsurance fee, were imposed as enacted, and if we are unable to adjust our business model to address these new taxes and assessments, such as through the reduction of our operating costs or adjustments to premium pricing or benefit design, there can be no assurance that the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application, including reductions in medicare advantage payment rates, could increase our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition to the health insurance reform legislation, the health care industry in general and health insurance are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation: health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (hitech act) the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers, and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans). the hitech act, one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, significantly broadened the scope of the privacy and security regulations of hipaa. among other requirements, the hitech act mandates individual notification in the event of a breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information, provides enhanced penalties for hipaa violations, requires business associates to comply with certain provisions of the hipaa privacy and security rule, and grants enforcement authority to states attorneys general in addition to the hhs office of civil rights. on january 17, 2013, hhs issued the omnibus final rule on hipaa privacy, security, breach notification requirements and enforcement requirements under the hitech act, and a final regulation for required changes to the hipaa privacy rule for the genetic information nondiscrimination act, or gina. the omnibus final rule becomes effective on march 26, 2013, with an applicable compliance date of september 23, 2013. in addition, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. state statutes and regulations 26 table of contents vary from state to state and could impose additional penalties. violations of hipaa or applicable federal or state laws or regulations could subject us to significant criminal or civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa and other privacy regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to the u.s. department of health and human services in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business associates to comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa provisions and requires the u.s. department of health and human services to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. workers compensation laws and regulations in performing services for the workers compensation industry through our subsidiary concentra inc., we must comply with applicable state workers compensation laws. workers compensation laws generally require employers to assume financial responsibility for medical costs, lost wages, and related legal costs of work-related illnesses and injuries. these laws generally establish the rights of workers to receive benefits and to appeal benefit denials, prohibit charging medical co-payments or deductibles to employees, may restrict employers rights to select healthcare providers or direct an injured employee to a specific provider to receive non-emergency workers compensation medical care, and may include special requirements for physicians providing non-emergency care for workers compensation patients, including requiring registration with the state agency governing workers compensation, as well as special continuing education and training, licensing and other regulatory requirements. to the extent that we are governed by these regulations, we may be subject to additional licensing requirements, financial oversight, and procedural standards for beneficiaries and providers. corporate practice of medicine and other laws as a corporate entity, humana inc. is not licensed to practice medicine. many states in which we operate through our subsidiaries limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. under management agreements between concentra and its affiliated physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed healthcare providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. we believe that our health services operations comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, and similar issues. however, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these statutes, which could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. anti-kickback, physician self-referral, and other fraud and abuse laws a federal law commonly referred to as the anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of medicare or other 27 table of contents governmental health program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease, or order of items or services that are covered by medicare or other federal governmental health programs. because the prohibitions contained in the anti-kickback statute apply to the furnishing of items or services for which payment is made in whole or in part, the anti-kickback statute could be implicated if any portion of an item or service we provide is covered by any of the state or federal health benefit programs described above. violation of these provisions constitutes a felony criminal offense and applicable sanctions could include exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. section 1877 of the social security act, commonly known as the stark law, prohibits physicians, subject to certain exceptions described below, from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity providing designated health services in which the physician, or an immediate family member, has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has entered into a compensation arrangement. these prohibitions, contained in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1993, commonly known as stark ii, amended prior federal physician self-referral legislation known as stark i by expanding the list of designated health services to a total of 11 categories of health services. the professional groups with which we are affiliated provide one or more of these designated health services. persons or entities found to be in violation of the stark law are subject to denial of payment for services furnished pursuant to an improper referral, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. many states also have enacted laws similar in scope and purpose to the anti-kickback statute and, in more limited instances, the stark law, that are not limited to services for which medicare or medicaid payment is made. in addition, most states have statutes, regulations, or professional codes that restrict a physician from accepting various kinds of remuneration in exchange for making referrals. these laws vary from state to state and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. in states that have enacted these statutes, we believe that regulatory authorities and state courts interpreting these statutes may regard federal law under the anti-kickback statute and the stark law as persuasive. we believe that our operations comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, and similar federal or state laws addressing fraud and abuse. these laws are subject to modification and changes in interpretation, and are enforced by authorities vested with broad discretion. we continually monitor developments in this area. if these laws are interpreted in a manner contrary to our interpretation or are reinterpreted or amended, or if new legislation is enacted with respect to healthcare fraud and abuse, illegal remuneration, or similar issues, we may be required to restructure our affected operations to maintain compliance with applicable law. there can be no assurances that any such restructuring will be possible or, if possible, would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. environmental we are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment. if an environmental regulatory agency finds any of our facilities to be in violation of environmental laws, penalties and fines may be imposed for each day of violation and the affected facility could be forced to cease operations. we could also incur other significant costs, such as cleanup costs or claims by third parties, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. although we believe that our environmental practices, including waste handling and disposal practices, are in material compliance with applicable laws, future claims or violations, or changes in environmental laws, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. state regulation of insurance-related products laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate increases, 28 table of contents delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. our licensed subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. certain of our subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, or other cash transfers to humana inc., our parent company, and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, or ordinary dividends, is limited based on the entity level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. although minimum required levels of equity are largely based on premium volume, product mix, and the quality of assets held, minimum requirements vary significantly at the state level. our state regulated subsidiaries had aggregate statutory capital and surplus of approximately $5.1 billion and $4.7 billion as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which exceeded aggregate minimum regulatory requirements. excluding puerto rico subsidiaries, the amount of ordinary dividends that may be paid to our parent company in 2013 is approximately $911 million in the aggregate. this compares to ordinary dividends that were able to be paid in 2012 of approximately $860 million. we expect the amount of dividends to be paid to our parent company in 2013 to approximate the amount of ordinary dividends. any failure to manage operating costs could hamper profitability. the level of our operating costs impacts our profitability. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage such expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, additional investment in new products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs and expansion of clinical capabilities a part of our integrated care delivery model), greater emphasis on small group and individual health insurance products, investments in health and well-being product offerings, expansion into new specialty markets, acquisitions, new taxes and assessments, including the new non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments under health insurance reform legislation, such as the three-year commercial reinsurance fee, and implementation of regulatory requirements may occur from time to time. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contain our operating costs in line with our membership and this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, transactions outside of our core business space, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. the 29 table of contents failure to successfully integrate acquired entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of our acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. we may also be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we own or contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. these providers may share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations, or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care providers for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month fee under which physicians are paid an amount to provide all required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our pharmacy business competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, and internet companies as well as other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state board of pharmacy. in addition, some states have proposed laws to regulate online pharmacies, and we may be subject to this legislation if it is passed. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations. pharmacies must register with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in 30 table of contents addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-order pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose us to civil and criminal penalties. changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. recent events have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. regulators have conducted investigations into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our mail-order pharmacy business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our mail-order and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries is restricted. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. these subsidiaries generally are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from our parent company. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed 31 table of contents specified amounts, or, in some states, any amount. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our 7.20%, 8.15%, 3.15%, and 4.625% senior notes contain a change of control provision that may require us to purchase the notes under certain circumstances. our 7.20% and 8.15% senior notes are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the notes are downgraded (or subsequently upgraded). in addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under recent regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would increase, our sales and earnings could decrease, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. changes in economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the u.s. economy continues to experience a period of slow economic growth and high unemployment. we have closely monitored the impact that this volatile economy is having on our operations. workforce reductions have caused corresponding membership losses in our fully-insured commercial group business. continued weakness in the u.s. economy, and any continued high unemployment, may materially adversely affect our medical membership, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. additionally, the continued weakness of the u.s. economy has adversely affected the budget of individual states and of the federal government. this could result in attempts to reduce payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military services, and medicaid programs, and could result in an increase in taxes and assessments on our activities. although we could attempt to mitigate or cover our exposure from such increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to mitigate or cover all of such costs which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 32 table of contents in addition, general inflationary pressures may affect the costs of medical and other care, increasing the costs of claims expenses submitted to us. the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. certain european union member states have total fiscal obligations greater than their respective gross domestic products. this imbalance has caused investor concern over such countries ability to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth. currently, the european debt crisis has caused credit spreads to widen and liquidity to tighten in the fixed income debt markets. a weaker european economy may transcend europe, cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of european financial institutions and the stability of european member economies, and likewise adversely affect u.s.-based financial institutions, the stability of the global financial markets, and the u.s. economy. we have no direct exposure to sovereign issuances of spain, italy, ireland, portugal, or greece. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, acquisitions, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months, as well as to refinance or repay debt, and repurchase shares. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. given the current economic climate, our stock and the stocks of other companies in the insurance industry may be increasingly subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. over the past three years, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility. company-specific issues and market developments generally in the insurance industry and in the 33 table of contents regulatory environment may have contributed to this volatility. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to materially fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: the enactment of, and the potential for additional, health insurance reform; general economic conditions; quarterly variations in operating results; natural disasters, terrorist attacks and epidemics; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; press releases or negative publicity relating to our competitors or us or relating to trends in our markets; regulatory changes and adverse outcomes from litigation and government or regulatory investigations; sales of stock by insiders; changes in our credit ratings; limitations on premium levels or the ability to raise premiums on existing policies; increases in minimum capital, reserves, and other financial strength requirements; and limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock. these factors could materially reduce our stock price. in addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. prior to 2009, under interest rate swap agreements, we exchanged the fixed interest rate under all of our senior notes for a variable interest rate based on libor using interest rate swap agreements. we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements in 2008. we may re-enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either libor plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2012 or december 31, 2011. 83 table of contents interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with a weighted average s&amp;p credit rating of aa- at december 31, 2012. our net unrealized position improved $203 million from a net unrealized gain position of $525 million at december 31, 2011 to a net unrealized gain position of $728 million at december 31, 2012. at december 31, 2012, we had gross unrealized losses of $8 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates and tighter liquidity conditions in the current markets than when the securities were purchased, and as such, there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2012. while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 4.0 years as of december 31, 2012 and 3.9 years as of december 31, 2011. based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $443 million. we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200, and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2012 and 2011. our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may affect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points once, have not changed between 200 and 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points four times, and have changed by less than 100 basis points five times. increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in millions) as of december 31, 2012 investment income (a) $ (16 ) $ (16 ) $ (10 ) $ 33 $ 68 $ 102 interest expense (b) 0 0 0 0 0 0 pretax $ (16 ) $ (16 ) $ (10 ) $ 33 $ 68 $ 102 as of december 31, 2011 investment income $ (26 ) $ (21 ) $ (11 ) $ 35 $ 69 $ 104 interest expense (b) 0 0 0 0 0 0 pretax $ (26 ) $ (21 ) $ (11 ) $ 35 $ 69 $ 104 (a) as of december 31, 2012, some of our investments had interest rates below 3% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 3% point reduction. (b) the interest rate under our senior notes is fixed. there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2012 or december 31, 2011. 84 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors in this 2013 form 10-k for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. health care reform the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. while regulations and interpretive guidance on many provisions of the health care reform law have been issued to date by the department of health and human services, or hhs, the department of labor, the treasury department, and the national association of insurance commissioners, or naic, there are certain provisions of the law that will require additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impact of the law on our overall business. 3 table of contents certain significant provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to medicare advantage premiums, the establishment of federally facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, an annual insurance industry premium-based assessment, and a three-year commercial reinsurance fee. implementation dates of the health care reform law began in september 2010 and continue through 2018. the health care reform law is discussed more fully in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled health care reform. business segments on january 1, 2013, we reclassified certain of our businesses to correspond with internal management reporting changes and renamed our health and well-being services segment as healthcare services. our employer group segment now includes our health and wellness businesses, including humanavitality and lifesynch employee assistance programs, which had historically been reported in our healthcare services segment. the retail segment now includes our contract with the centers for medicare and medicaid services, or cms, to administer the limited income newly eligible transition, or li-net, prescription drug plan program as well as our state-based contracts for medicaid members, both of which had historically been reported in our other businesses category. prior period segment financial information has been recast to conform to the 2013 presentation. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for segment financial information. we manage our business with three reportable segments: retail, employer group, and healthcare services. in addition, the other businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles. these segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on integrated care delivery for our health plans and other customers, as described below. these segment groupings are consistent with information used by our chief executive officer to assess performance and allocate resources. the retail segment consists of medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, marketed directly to individuals, and includes our contract with centers for medicare and medicaid services, or cms, to administer the li-net prescription drug plan program, and contracts with various states to provide medicaid, dual eligible, and long-term support services benefits, collectively our state-based contracts. the employer group segment consists of medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and voluntary benefit products, as well as administrative services only products, or aso, and our health and wellness products primarily marketed to employer groups. the healthcare services segment includes services offered to our health plan members as well as to third parties, including pharmacy, provider services, home based services, integrated behavioral health services, and predictive modeling and informatics services. the other businesses category consists of our military services, primarily our tricare south region contract, puerto rico medicaid, and closed-block long-term care insurance policies. the results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. transactions between reportable segments consist of sales of services rendered by our healthcare services segment, primarily pharmacy, provider, and behavioral health, to our retail and employer group customers. intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at fair value and eliminated in consolidation. members served by our segments often utilize the same provider networks, enabling us in some instances to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. our segments also share indirect costs and assets. as a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. we allocate most operating expenses to our segments. assets and certain corporate income and expenses are not allocated to the segments, including the portion of investment income not supporting segment operations, interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate expenses. these items are managed at the corporate level. these corporate amounts are reported separately from our reportable segments and included with intersegment eliminations. 4 table of contents our products our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. these products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. health maintenance organizations, or hmos, generally require a referral from the member primary care provider before seeing certain specialty physicians. preferred provider organizations, or ppos, provide members the freedom to choose a health care provider without requiring a referral. however ppos generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the ppo network. point of service, or pos, plans combine the advantages of hmo plans with the flexibility of ppo plans. in general, pos plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan network or outside the network. in addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy, provider services, integrated wellness, and home based services. at the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused. the model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. the discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. our retail segment products this segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the retail segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2013: retail segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: individual medicare advantage $ 22,481 54.9 % medicare stand-alone pdp 3,025 7.4 % total retail medicare 25,506 62.3 % individual commercial 1,160 2.8 % state-based medicaid 328 0.8 % individual specialty 210 0.5 % total premiums 27,204 66.4 % services 16 0.1 % total premiums and services revenue $ 27,220 66.5 % individual medicare we have participated in the medicare program for private health plans for over 30 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of medicare plan in all 50 states. we have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of ppo and hmo providers. we employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. we believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. 5 table of contents medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. cms, an agency of the united states department of health and human services, administers the medicare program. hospitalization benefits are provided under part a, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under part b. beneficiaries eligible for part a and part b coverage under original medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. throughout this document this program is referred to as original medicare. as an alternative to original medicare, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with cms pursuant to the medicare advantage program, medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a medicare advantage organization under medicare part c. pursuant to medicare part c, medicare advantage organizations contract with cms to offer medicare advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under original medicare. our medicare advantage plans are discussed more fully below. prescription drug benefits are provided under part d. individual medicare advantage products we contract with cms under the medicare advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, chronic care management, and care coordination, to medicare eligible persons under hmo, ppo, and private fee-for-service, or pffs, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from cms, usually a fixed payment per member per month. with each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of original medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly part b premium. most medicare advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under part d as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. accordingly, all of the provisions of the medicare part d program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our medicare advantage plans. medicare advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our medicare hmo and ppo plans, which cover medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most hmo plans provide no out-of-network benefits. ppo plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. in some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the hmo or ppo plan in addition to the monthly part b premium they are required to pay the medicare program. most of our medicare pffs plans are network-based products with in and out of network benefits due to a requirement that medicare advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that cms determines have fewer than two network-based medicare advantage plans. in these areas, we offer medicare pffs plans that have no preferred network. individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical medicare advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to original medicare payment rates. cms uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. these rates are adjusted under cms risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. the risk-adjustment model, which cms implemented pursuant to the balanced budget act of 1997 (bba) and the benefits and improvement protection act of 2000 (bipa), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital 6 table of contents inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to cms within prescribed deadlines. at december 31, 2013, we provided health insurance coverage under cms contracts to approximately 2,068,700 individual medicare advantage members, including approximately 415,200 members in florida. these florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $6.0 billion, which represented approximately 27% of our individual medicare advantage premiums revenue, or 15% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2013. our hmo and ppo products covered under medicare advantage contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare advantage products have been renewed for 2014, and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2014 have been approved. individual medicare stand-alone prescription drug products we offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or pdps, under medicare part d, including a pdp plan co-branded with wal-mart stores, inc., or the humana-walmart plan. generally, medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between october 15 and december 7 for coverage that begins on the following january 1. our stand-alone pdp offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. our revenues from cms and the beneficiary are determined from our pdp bids submitted annually to cms. these revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the section titled medicare part d provisions. our stand-alone pdp contracts with cms are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless cms notifies us of its decision not to renew by may 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify cms of our decision not to renew by the first monday in june of the calendar year in which the contract would end. all material contracts between humana and cms relating to our medicare stand-alone pdp products have been renewed for 2014, and all of our product offerings filed with cms for 2014 have been approved. we have administered cms li-net prescription drug plan program since 2010. this program allows individuals who receive medicare low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a medicare part d plan. cms temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both medicare and medicaid into the li-net prescription drug plan program, and subsequently transitions each member into a medicare part d plan that may or may not be a humana medicare plan. medicare and medicaid dual eligible and long-term care support services medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. the dual eligible population represents a disproportionate share of medicaid and medicare costs. there were approximately 9 million dual eligible individuals in the united states in 2013, trending upward due to medicaid eligibility expansions and individuals aging in to the medicare program. these dual eligibles may enroll in a privately-offered medicare advantage product, but may also receive assistance from medicaid for medicaid benefits, such as nursing home care and/or assistance with medicare premiums and cost sharing. the dual eligible population is a strategic area of focus for us and we are leveraging the capabilities of our integrated care delivery model, including care management programs particularly as they relate to chronic conditions, to expand our services to this population. as of december 31, 2013, we served approximately 312,300 dual eligible members in our medicare advantage plans and approximately 954,900 dual eligible members in our stand-alone prescription drug plans. 7 table of contents since the enactment of the health care reform law, states are pursuing stand-alone dual eligible cms demonstration programs in which medicare, medicaid, and long-term care support services (ltss) benefits are more tightly integrated. eligibility for participation in these stand-alone dual eligible demonstration programs may require state-based contractual relationships in existing medicaid programs. we were successful in our bids for state-based contracts in florida and virginia in 2013 and in ohio, illinois, and kentucky in 2012. ohio, illinois, and virginia are contracts for stand-alone dual eligible demonstration programs serving individuals dually eligible for both the federal medicare program and the state-based medicaid program. we partner with organizations, including caresource management group company, to serve individuals in certain states. we began serving members in kentucky and certain ltss regions in florida in 2013, and we expect to begin serving new members in ohio, illinois, virginia, and florida at various dates between the first quarter and third quarter of 2014. ltss eligible beneficiaries heavily overlap with the dual eligible population. on september 6, 2013, we acquired american eldercare inc., or american eldercare, the largest provider of nursing home diversion services in the state of florida, serving frail and elderly individuals in home and community-based settings. american eldercare complements our core capabilities and strength in serving seniors and disabled individuals with a unique focus on individualized and integrated care, and has contracts to provide medicaid long-term support services across the entire state of florida. the enrollment effective dates for the various regions range from august 2013 to march 2014. individual commercial coverage our individual health plans are marketed under the humanaone &reg; brand. we offer products both on and off of the public exchange, including exchange offerings in certain metropolitan areas in 14 states. we offer products on exchanges where we can achieve an affordable cost of care, including hmo offerings and select networks in most markets. our off-exchange products offered in 22 states are primarily ppo and pos offerings, including plans issued prior to 2014 that were previously underwritten. in addition, we offer most of our on exchange products off exchange as well. policies issued prior to the enactment of the health care reform law on march 23, 2010 are grandfathered policies. grandfathered policies are exempt from the requirements of the health care reform law, including mandated benefits. however, our grandfathered plans include provisions that guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. policies issued between march 23, 2010 and december 31, 2013 are required to conform to the health care reform law, including mandated benefits, upon renewal in 2014 or 2015, depending on the state. the initial open enrollment period began for plans effective january 1, 2014 offered through federally facilitated, federal-state partnerships or state-based exchanges for individuals on october 1, 2013. federal and state regulatory changes in december 2013 extended the enrollment deadline for january 1, 2014 insurance coverage from december 15, 2013 to december 24, 2013, required plans to accept payment for policies with a start date of january 1, 2014 as late as december 31, 2013 (we voluntarily extended our deadline for payment to january 31, 2014 and voluntarily extended our deadline for payment to february 28, 2014 for policies with a start date of february 1), and allowed certain individuals to remain in their existing underwritten off-exchange health plans that are not compliant with the health care reform law. individuals have until march 31, 2014 to enroll for insurance without paying the penalty imposed by the health care reform law. prior to 2014, our humanaone &reg; plans primarily were offered as ppo plans in 27 states where we could generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. as indicated above, this individual product included provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses. rewards-based wellness programs are included with many individual products. we also offer optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a portfolio of financial protection products. 8 table of contents informatics as discussed previously, at the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model. we are focused on proactive clinical outreach and member engagement. accordingly, our retail segment uses the informatics and predictive modeling capabilities of our healthcare services segment to identify members in need of clinical intervention, as further described under the section titled our healthcare services segment products herein. employer group segment products this segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including medical and supplemental benefit plans as well as health and wellness products as described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the employer group segment by product for the year ended december 31, 2013: employer group segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) external revenue: premiums: fully-insured commercial group $ 5,117 12.5 % group medicare advantage 4,710 11.5 % group medicare stand-alone pdp 8 0.0 % total group medicare 4,718 11.5 % group specialty 1,095 2.7 % total premiums 10,930 26.7 % services 357 0.9 % total premiums and services revenue $ 11,287 27.6 % intersegment services revenue: wellness $ 51 n/a total intersegment services revenue $ 51 n/a not applicable employer group commercial coverage our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through hmo, ppo, or pos plans, or self-funded basis. our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. we participate in the federal employee health benefits program, or fehbp, primarily with our hmo offering in certain markets. fehbp is the government health insurance program for federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. as with our individual commercial products, the employer group offerings include humanavitality &reg; , our wellness and loyalty reward program. 9 table of contents our administrative services only, or aso, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. we receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. these products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured hmo, ppo, or pos products described previously. under aso contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. however, more than half of our aso customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. as with individual commercial policies, employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a portfolio of voluntary benefit products. group medicare advantage and medicare stand-alone pdp we offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace medicare wrap or medicare supplement products with medicare advantage or stand-alone pdps from humana. these products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an employer post-retirement benefit structure. wellness we offer wellness solutions including our humana vitality &reg; wellness and loyalty rewards program, health coaching, and fitness programs. we provide employee assistance programs and coaching services primarily to our employer group customers. services include a comprehensive turn-key coaching program, an enhancement to a medically based coaching protocol and a platform that makes coaching programs more efficient. humanavitality, llc, a joint venture with discovery holdings ltd., provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual needs and wants. a key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an actuarially sound incentive program. 10 table of contents our healthcare services segment products the products offered by our healthcare services segment are key to our integrated care delivery model. this segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that offer services including pharmacy solutions, provider services, home based services, integrated behavioral health services, and predictive modeling and informatics services to other humana businesses, as well as external health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. our intersegment revenue is described in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. the following table presents our services revenue for the healthcare services segment by line of business for the year ended december 31, 2013: healthcare services segment premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) intersegment revenue: pharmacy solutions $ 13,079 n/a provider services 1,120 n/a home based services 326 n/a integrated behavioral health services 126 n/a total intersegment revenue $ 14,651 external services revenue: provider services $ 1,127 2.8 % home based services 94 0.2 % pharmacy solutions 59 0.1 % integrated behavioral health services 2 0.0 % total external services revenue $ 1,282 3.1 % n/a not applicable pharmacy solutions humana pharmacy solutions &reg; , or hps, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. hps also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through rightsourcerx &reg; , as well as research services. provider services our subsidiary, concentra inc. &reg; , acquired in 2010, delivers primary care, occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness services to employees and the general public through its operation of medical centers and worksite medical facilities. our cac medical centers, or cac, in south florida operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers staffed by primary care providers and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry. our subsidiary, metropolitan health networks, inc., or metropolitan, and our noncontrolling equity interest in mcci holdings, llc, or mcci, both acquired in 2012, are medical services organizations, or msos, that coordinate medical care for medicare advantage beneficiaries and medicaid recipients, primarily in florida and texas. these msos represent key components of our integrated care delivery model which we believe is scalable to new markets. 11 table of contents integrated behavioral health services corphealth, inc. (d/b/a lifesynch &reg; ), a humana subsidiary, offers care management services through an innovative suite of integrated products, integrating behavioral health services with wellness programs, and employee assistance programs and work-life services. home based services via in-home care, telephonic health counseling/coaching, and remote monitoring, we are actively involved in the care management of our customers with the greatest needs. home based services include the operations of seniorbridge family companies, inc., or seniorbridge, acquired in 2012, and humana cares &reg; . as a chronic-care provider of in-home care for seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. we focus our deployment of these services in geographies, such as florida, with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions. informatics we supplement our existing clinical capabilities with technology. we believe that technology represents a significant opportunity in health care that positively impacts our members. we have enhanced our health information technology capabilities enabling us to create a more complete view of an individual health, designed to connect, coordinate and simplify health care while reducing costs. these capabilities include our health care analytics engine, which reviews millions of clinical data points each day to provide members, providers, and payers real-time clinical insights and gaps-in-care data to improve health outcomes, as well as technology that allows disparate electronic health record systems and humana to share data that gives providers a comprehensive view of the patient and enables the exchange of essential health information in real-time. as we have integrated these and related assets into our operations over the past few years, we have enhanced our ability to leverage predictive modeling capabilities that enable us to anticipate, rather than react to, our members health needs. other businesses products and services offered by our other businesses are described in the discussion that follows. the following table presents our premiums and services revenue for our other businesses for the year ended december 31, 2013: other businesses premiums and services revenue percent of consolidated premiums and services revenue (dollars in millions) premiums: military services $ 25 0.1 % puerto rico medicaid 629 1.5 % closed-block long-term care insurance policies 41 0.1 % total premiums 695 1.7 % services 454 1.1 % total premiums and services revenue $ 1,149 2.8 % military services under our tricare south region contract with the united states department of defense, or dod, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military 12 table of contents personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. currently, three health benefit options are available to tricare beneficiaries. in addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in an hmo-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a ppo. we have participated in the tricare program since 1996 under contracts with the dod. on april 1, 2012, we began delivering services under our current tricare south region contract that the defense health agency, or dha (formerly known as the tricare management activity), awarded to us on february 25, 2011. under the current contract, we provide administrative services, including offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, claim processing, customer service, enrollment, and other services, while the federal government retains all of the risk of the cost of health benefits. accordingly, we account for revenues under the current contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. our current tricare south region contract covers approximately 3,101,800 eligible beneficiaries as of december 31, 2013 in florida, georgia, south carolina, mississippi, alabama, tennessee, louisiana, arkansas, texas, oklahoma, and kentucky (the fort campbell area only). the south region is one of the three regions in the united states as defined by the department of defense. we have subcontracted with third parties to provide selected administration and specialty services under the contract. the current 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2017, is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year during its term at the government option. on january 27, 2014, we received notice from the dha of its intent to exercise its option to extend the tricare south region contract through march 31, 2015. puerto rico medicaid our puerto rico medicaid business consisted of contracts with the puerto rico health insurance administration, or prhia, for the east, southeast, and southwest. on june 26, 2013, the puerto rico health insurance administration notified us of its election not to renew these contracts which ended june 30, 2013. contractual transition provisions required the continuation of insurance coverage for beneficiaries through september 30, 2013 and also require an additional period of time thereafter to process residual claims. closed block of long-term care insurance policies we have a non-strategic closed block of approximately 33,300 long-term care insurance policies associated with our acquisition of kmg america corporation in 2007. long-term care insurance policies are intended to protect the insured from the cost of long-term care services including those provided by nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and adult day care as well as home health care services. no new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. 13 table of contents membership the following table summarizes our total medical membership at december 31, 2013, by market and product: retail segment employer group segment (in thousands) individual medicare advantage individual medicare stand- alone pdp individual commercial state- based contracts fully- insured commercial group group medicare advantage and stand- alone pdp aso other businesses total percent of total florida 415.2 278.6 82.1 70.0 152.7 22.8 38.7 0 1,060.1 8.8 % texas 153.9 224.3 107.7 0 293.6 58.3 111.9 0 949.7 7.9 % kentucky 55.8 120.1 25.0 15.5 104.5 76.3 488.5 0 885.7 7.4 % ohio 61.4 105.7 7.7 0 53.2 148.4 141.1 0 517.5 4.3 % illinois 72.9 106.8 39.0 0 134.0 9.0 93.4 0 455.1 3.8 % california 24.2 348.6 5.1 0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0 378.2 3.2 % georgia 72.2 63.4 72.2 0 120.3 7.6 41.1 0 376.8 3.1 % wisconsin 49.1 62.4 13.6 0 88.7 13.1 116.0 0 342.9 2.9 % missouri/kansas 81.8 140.4 15.2 0 44.8 5.3 7.4 0 294.9 2.5 % tennessee 108.3 74.3 22.4 0 44.6 2.1 38.8 0 290.5 2.4 % louisiana 114.9 38.7 20.8 0 50.4 6.7 29.2 0 260.7 2.2 % virginia 107.4 86.3 4.3 0 0 3.5 0 0 201.5 1.7 % north carolina 71.8 117.9 5.8 0 0.1 0.5 0 0 196.1 1.6 % indiana 54.2 78.4 8.7 0 21.7 3.7 18.0 0 184.7 1.5 % michigan 48.6 96.8 12.0 0 10.3 13.1 2.6 0 183.4 1.5 % colorado 27.6 61.4 37.0 0 18.4 6.2 0.4 0 151.0 1.3 % arizona 45.2 53.1 19.3 0 24.8 1.5 2.1 0 146.0 1.2 % military services 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,101.8 3,101.8 25.9 % others 504.2 1,214.5 102.2 0 74.8 55.1 33.5 23.4 2,007.7 16.8 % totals 2,068.7 3,271.7 600.1 85.5 1,237.0 433.3 1,162.8 3,125.2 11,984.3 100.0 % provider arrangements we provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we employ or with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. these ancillary services and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers. we use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. these techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into various care management programs. the focal point for health care services in many of our hmo networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. we have available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. we also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions. 14 table of contents we typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (drg), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or apcs, or at a discounted charge. apcs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. these contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the medicare allowable fee schedule. our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. most of the physicians in our ppo networks and some of our physicians in our hmo networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard medicare allowable fee schedule. the terms of our contracts with hospitals and physicians may also vary between medicare and commercial business. a significant portion of our medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to medicare reimbursement levels and methodologies. the budget control act of 2011, enacted on august 2, 2011, increased the united states debt ceiling conditioned on deficit reductions to be achieved over the next ten years. the budget control act of 2011 also established a twelve-member joint committee of congress known as the joint select committee on deficit reduction to propose legislation to reduce the united states federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. the failure of the joint select committee on deficit reduction to achieve a targeted deficit reduction by december 23, 2011 triggered an automatic reduction, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. these reductions took effect on april 1, 2013, and the bipartisan budget act of 2013, enacted on december 26, 2013, extended the reductions for two years. we expect a corresponding substantial reduction in our obligations to providers. due to the uncertainty around the application of any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we can completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs applied by the budget control act of 2011. see legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. capitation for some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership, primarily hmo membership. under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated member. we believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery model at the core of our strategy. our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries, including metropolitan, an mso acquired december 21, 2012. at december 31, 2013, approximately 671,000 members, or 5.6% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts, including 561,500 individual medicare advantage members, or 27.1% of our total individual medicare advantage membership. the termination of our puerto rico medicaid contract effective september 30, 2013 resulted in a decline in the total number of members covered under risk-based contracts from 1,131,700 members at december 31, 2012. 15 table of contents physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. we typically process all claims and monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. however, we delegated claim processing functions under capitation arrangements covering approximately 116,200 hmo members, including 84,400 individual medicare advantage members, at december 31, 2013, with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating the members health care benefits. capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the underlying claims experience was approximately $693 million, or 2.1% of total benefits expense, for the year ended december 31, 2013. we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services. accreditation assessment our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies as well as external accreditation standards. we also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the health care effectiveness data and information sets, or hedis, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the national committee for quality assurance, or ncqa, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction. providers participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by cms and/or the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations. recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. recredentialing of participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses, review of their malpractice liability claims histories, review of their board certifications, if applicable, and review of applicable quality information. a committee, composed of a peer group of providers, reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing. we request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from ncqa, the accreditation association for ambulatory health care, and the urac. accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of florida and kansas for licensure as an hmo. certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans. ncqa reviews our compliance based on standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. we have achieved and maintained ncqa accreditation in most of our commercial, medicare and medicaid hmo/pos markets with enough history and membership, except puerto rico, and for many of our ppo markets. sales and marketing we use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings. at december 31, 2013, we employed approximately 1,800 sales representatives, as well as approximately 1,100 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of individual medicare and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products in our retail segment, including making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. we also market our individual medicare products via a strategic alliance with wal-mart stores, inc., or wal-mart. this alliance includes stationing humana representatives in certain wal-mart stores, sam club locations, and neighborhood markets across the country which provides an opportunity to enroll medicare eligible individuals in person. in addition, we market our individual medicare 16 table of contents and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products through licensed independent brokers and agents. for our medicare products, commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure, regulated in structure and amount by cms. for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products, we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. in addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. these include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. we also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers. in our employer group segment, individuals may become members of our commercial hmos and ppos through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. we attempt to become an employer or group exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of hmo, ppo, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. in addition, we have begun to offer plans to employer groups through private exchanges. employers can give their employees a set amount of money and then direct them to a private exchange. there, employees can shop for a health plan and other benefits based on what the employer has selected as options. we also sell group medicare advantage products through large employers. we use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, and employees to sell our group products. many of our larger employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. we pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products. underwriting beginning in 2014, the health care reform law requires all individual and group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments. accordingly, newly issued individual and group health plans are not subject to underwriting in 2014 and beyond. further, underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our medicare, military services, or medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. prior to 2014, through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determined the risk we were willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. in most instances, employer and other groups had to meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. competition the health benefits industry is highly competitive. our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other hmos and ppos, including hmos and ppos owned by blue cross/blue shield plans. many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in the section entitled risk factors in this 2013 form 10-k. government regulation diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation health care system. 17 table of contents our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. we are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see the section entitled risk factors in this 2013 form 10-k. certain other services captive insurance company we bear general business risks associated with operating our company such as professional and general liability, employee workers compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. we retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. we reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. we remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses. centralized management services we provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. these services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service. employees as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately 52,000 employees and an additional approximately 2,500 medical professionals working under management agreements between concentra and affiliated physician-owned associations. we believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to our members, if we are unable to implement clinical initiatives to provide a better health care experience for our members, lower costs and appropriately document the risk profile of our members, or if our estimates of benefits expense are inadequate, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. we estimate the costs of our benefits expense payments, and design and price our products accordingly, using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon, among other relevant factors, claim payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and historical developments such as claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns. these estimates, however involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability because they are extremely sensitive to changes in claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. we use a substantial portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. these costs include claims payments, capitation payments to providers (predetermined amounts paid to cover services), and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to our members. these costs also include estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided to our members. generally, premiums in the health care business are fixed for one-year periods. accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. we estimate the costs of our future benefit claims and other expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, medical inflation, historical developments, including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns, and other relevant factors. we also record benefits payable for future payments. we continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. however, these estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to claim payment patterns and medical cost trends. many factors may and often do cause actual health care costs to exceed what was estimated and used to set our premiums. these factors may include: increased use of medical facilities and services, including prescription drugs; increased cost of such services; our membership mix; variances in actual versus estimated levels of cost associated with new products, benefits or lines of business, product changes or benefit level changes; changes in the demographic characteristics of an account or market; changes or reductions of our utilization management functions such as preauthorization of services, concurrent review or requirements for physician referrals; changes in our pharmacy volume rebates received from drug manufacturers; catastrophes, including acts of terrorism, public health epidemics, or severe weather (e.g. hurricanes and earthquakes); the introduction of new or costly treatments, including new technologies; medical cost inflation; and government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including any that result from health care reform law. key to our operational strategy is the implementation of clinical initiatives that we believe provide a better health care experience for our members, lower these costs, and appropriately document the risk profile of our members. our profitability and competitiveness depend in large part on our ability to appropriately manage health care costs through, among other things, the application of medical management programs such as our chronic care management program. 19 table of contents in addition, we also estimate costs associated with long-duration insurance policies including long-term care, life insurance, annuities, and certain health and other supplemental insurance policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. at policy issuance, these future policy benefit reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, and maintenance expense assumptions. interest rates are based on our expected net investment returns on the investment portfolio supporting the reserves for these blocks of business. mortality, a measure of expected death, and morbidity, a measure of health status, assumptions are based on published actuarial tables, modified based upon actual experience. the assumptions used to determine the liability for future policy benefits are established and locked in at the time each contract is issued and only change if our expected future experience deteriorates to the point that the level of the liability, together with the present value of future gross premiums, are not adequate to provide for future expected policy benefits and maintenance costs (i.e. the loss recognition date). because these policies have long-term claim payout periods, there is a greater risk of significant variability in claims costs, either positive or negative. we perform loss recognition tests at least annually in the fourth quarter, and more frequently if adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate that the level of the liability, together with the present value of future gross premiums, may not be adequate to provide for future expected policy benefits and maintenance costs. future policy benefits payable include $1.4 billion at december 31, 2013 associated with a non-strategic closed block of long-term care insurance policies acquired in connection with the 2007 kmg america corporation acquisition. long-term care insurance policies provide nursing home and home health coverage for which premiums are collected many years in advance of benefits paid, if any. therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. the risk of a deviation of the actual interest, morbidity, mortality, and maintenance expense assumptions from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care insurance policies. we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care insurance policies, and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. however, to the extent premium rate increases or loss experience vary from the assumptions we have locked in, additional future adjustments to reserves could be required. for example, we were required to unlock, modify our assumptions, and increase future policy benefits payable in the fourth quarter of each of 2010 and 2013. failure to adequately price our products or estimate sufficient benefits payable or future policy benefits payable may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the health care industry in terms of a larger market share and have greater financial resources than we do in some markets. in addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the medicare program. we may also face increased competition due to participation by other insurers in the health insurance exchanges implemented under the health care reform law. we believe that barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. contracts for the sale of commercial products are generally bid upon or renewed annually. while health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. in addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face intense competitive pressure to contain premium prices. factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform, and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite being faced with increasing medical costs. the policies and decisions of the federal and state governments regarding the medicare, military, and medicaid programs in which we participate have a substantial impact on our profitability. these governmental policies and decisions, which we cannot predict with certainty, directly shape the premiums or other revenues to us under the programs, the eligibility and enrollment of our members, the services we provide to our members, and our administrative, health care services, and other costs associated with these programs. legislative or regulatory actions, such as those resulting in a reduction in premium payments to us, an increase in our cost of administrative and health care services, or additional fees, taxes or assessments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 20 table of contents premium increases, introduction of new product designs, and our relationships with our providers in various markets, among other issues, could also affect our membership levels. other actions that could affect membership levels include our possible exit from or entrance into medicare or commercial markets, or the termination of a large contract. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose membership with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership with unfavorable medical cost experience, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including our medicare initiatives, our state-based contracts strategy, and our participation in the new health insurance exchanges, our business may be materially adversely affected, which is of particular importance given the concentration of our revenues in these products. our future performance depends in large part upon our management team ability to execute our strategy to position us for the future. this strategy includes opportunities created by the expansion of our medicare programs, including our hmo, ppo, and stand-alone pdp products, the successful implementation of our integrated care delivery model, our strategy with respect to state-based contracts, including those covering members dually eligible for the medicare and medicaid programs, and our participation in health insurance exchanges. we have made substantial investments in the medicare program to enhance our ability to participate in these programs. over the last few years we have increased the size of our medicare geographic reach through expanded medicare product offerings. we are offering both the stand-alone medicare prescription drug coverage and medicare advantage health plan with prescription drug coverage in addition to our other product offerings. we offer the medicare prescription drug plan in 50 states as well as puerto rico and the district of columbia. the growth of our medicare products is an important part of our business strategy. any failure to achieve this growth may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in addition, the expansion of our medicare products in relation to our other businesses may intensify the risks to us inherent in medicare products. there is significant concentration of our revenues in medicare products, with approximately 74% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2013 generated from our medicare products, in particular our contracts with cms in florida. these expansion efforts may result in less diversification of our revenue stream and increased risks associated with operating in a highly regulated industry, as discussed further below. the recently implemented health care reform law created a federal medicare-medicaid coordination office to serve dual eligibles. this medicare-medicaid coordination office has initiated a series of state demonstration projects to experiment with better coordination of care between medicare and medicaid. depending upon the results of those demonstration projects, cms may change the way in which dual eligibles are serviced. if we are unable to implement our strategic initiatives to address the dual eligibles opportunity, including our participation in state-based contracts, or if our initiatives are not successful at attracting or retaining dual eligible members, our business may be materially adversely affected. additionally, our strategy includes the growth of our commercial products, including participation in the new health insurance exchanges, introduction of new products and benefit designs, including humanavitality and other wellness products, growth of our specialty products such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, the adoption of new technologies, development of adjacent businesses, and the integration of acquired businesses and contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives, including implementing our integrated care delivery model, that are intended to position us for future 21 table of contents growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, to strategically implement new information systems, to protect our proprietary rights to our systems, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, our business may be materially adversely affected. our business depends significantly on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. our business strategy involves providing members and providers with easy to use products that leverage our information to meet their needs. our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of our past and on-going acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. we have reduced the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating existing business to fewer systems. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. we depend on independent third parties for significant portions of our systems-related support, equipment, facilities, and certain data, including data center operations, data network, voice communication services and pharmacy data processing. this dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties failure to perform adequately under the contract, due to internal or external factors. a change in service providers could result in a decline in service quality and effectiveness or less favorable contract terms which may adversely affect our operating results. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, including litigation involving end users of software products. we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this area grows. a cybersecurity attack that bypasses our information technology, or it, security systems causing a security breach may lead to a material disruption of our it business systems and/or the loss of business information. if a cybersecurity attack were to be successful, we could be materially adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property, operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our it systems, or negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, brokers, agents, providers, and other stakeholders. there can be no assurance that our it process will successfully improve existing systems, develop new systems to support our expanding operations, integrate new systems, protect our proprietary information, defend against cybersecurity attacks, or improve service levels. in addition, there can be no assurance that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems and data, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 22 table of contents our business may be materially adversely impacted by cms adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses. federal regulations related to the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended (hipaa) contain minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets, and for the privacy and security of protected health information. icd-9, the current system of assigning codes to diagnoses and procedures associated with hospital utilization in the united states, will be replaced by icd-10 code sets on october 1, 2014. for dates of service on or after that date, health plans and providers will be required to use icd-10 codes for such diagnoses and procedures. while we have prepared for the transition to icd-10, if unforeseen circumstances arise, it is possible that we could be exposed to investigations and allegations of noncompliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, if some providers continue to use icd-9 codes on claims after october 1, 2014, we will have to reject such claims, which may lead to claim resubmissions, increased call volume and provider and customer dissatisfaction. further, providers may use icd-10 codes differently than they used icd-9 codes in the past, which could result in lost revenues under risk adjustment. during the transition to icd-10, certain claims processing and payment information we have historically used to establish our reserves may not be reliable or available in a timely manner. if we do not adequately implement the new icd-10 coding set, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. we are involved in various legal actions and governmental and internal investigations, any of which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages. increased litigation and negative publicity could increase our cost of doing business. we are or may become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including breach of contract actions, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, securities laws claims, and tort claims. in addition, because of the nature of the health care business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management, and offering of products and services. these include and could include in the future: claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial of health care benefit payments; claims relating to the denial or rescission of insurance coverage; challenges to the use of some software products used in administering claims; claims relating to our administration of our medicare part d offerings; medical malpractice actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for providers alleged malpractice; claims arising from any adverse medical consequences resulting from our recommendations about the appropriateness of providers proposed medical treatment plans for patients; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation or non-acceptance or termination of provider contracts or provider contract disputes relating to rate adjustments resulting from the balance budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985, as amended (commonly referred to as sequestration ); disputes related to aso business, including actions alleging claim administration errors; qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that we, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government including, among other allegations, resulting from coding and review practices under the medicare risk-adjustment model; 23 table of contents claims related to the failure to disclose some business practices; claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; claims relating to dispensing of drugs associated with our in-house mail-order pharmacy; and professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public. in some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages as well as treble damages under the federal false claims act, racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act and other statutes may be sought. while we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. in addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. in some jurisdictions, coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. the health benefits industry continues to receive significant negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. this publicity and perception have been accompanied by increased litigation, including some large jury awards, legislative activity, regulation, and governmental review of industry practices. these factors may adversely affect our ability to market our products or services, may require us to change our products or services, may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, and may require us to pay large judgments or fines. any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. see legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. we cannot predict the outcome of these matters with certainty. as a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs. a significant portion of our revenues relates to federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military, and medicaid programs. these programs accounted for approximately 77% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2013. these programs involve various risks, as described further below. at december 31, 2013, under our contracts with cms we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 415,200 individual medicare advantage members in florida. these contracts accounted for approximately 15% of our total premiums and services revenue for the year ended december 31, 2013. the loss of these and other cms contracts or significant changes in the medicare program as a result of legislative or regulatory action, including reductions in premium payments to us or increases in member benefits without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. at december 31, 2013, our military services business primarily consisted of the tricare south region contract which covers approximately 3,101,800 beneficiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2013, premiums and services revenue associated with the tricare south region contract accounted for approximately 1% of our total premiums and services revenue. on april 1, 2012, we began delivering services under the current tricare south region contract that the defense health agency, or dha (formerly known as the tricare management activity), awarded to us on february 25, 2011. the current 5-year south region contract, which expires march 31, 2017, is subject to annual renewals on april 1 of each year during its term at the government option. on january 27, 2014, we received notice from the dha of its intent to exercise its option to extend the tricare 24 table of contents south region contract through march 31, 2015. the loss of the tricare south region contract, should it occur, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. there is a possibility of temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, if we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a health care program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the federal false claims act. as a government contractor, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by individuals who seek to sue on behalf of the government, alleging that the government contractor submitted false claims to the government. litigation of this nature is filed under seal to allow the government an opportunity to investigate and to decide if it wishes to intervene and assume control of the litigation. if the government does not intervene, the lawsuit is unsealed, and the individual may continue to prosecute the action on his or her own. cms uses a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to medicare advantage, or ma, plans according to health severity. the risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. under this model, rates paid to ma plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process that bases our prospective payments on a comparison of our beneficiaries risk scores, derived from medical diagnoses, to those enrolled in the government original medicare program. under the risk-adjustment methodology, all ma plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to cms within prescribed deadlines. the cms risk-adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to ma plans. we generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to cms as the basis for our payment received from cms under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. we also rely on providers to appropriately document all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. cms is continuing to perform audits of various companies selected ma contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. these audits are referred to herein as risk-adjustment data validation audits, or radv audits. radv audits review medical records in an attempt to validate provider medical record documentation and coding practices which influence the calculation of premium payments to ma plans. on february 24, 2012, cms released a notice of final payment error calculation methodology for part c medicare advantage risk adjustment data validation (radv) contract-level audits . the final payment error calculation methodology provides that, in calculating the economic impact of audit results for an ma contract, if any, the results of the audit sample will be extrapolated to the entire ma contract based upon a comparison to benchmark audit data in the government fee-for-service program. this comparison to the government program benchmark audit is necessary to determine the economic impact, if any, of audit results because the government program data set, including any attendant errors that are present in that data set, provides the basis for ma plans risk adjustment to payment rates. the final methodology, including the first application of extrapolated audit results to determine audit settlements, is expected to be applied to the next round of radv contract level audits to be conducted on 2011 premium payments. selected ma contracts will be notified of an audit at some point after the close of the final reconciliation for the payment year being audited. the final reconciliation occurs in august of the calendar year following the payment year. on november 5, 2013, we were notified that one of our medicare advantage contracts had been selected for audit for contract year 2011. estimated audit settlements are recorded as a reduction of premiums revenue in our consolidated statements of income, based upon available information. during 2012, we completed internal contract level audits of certain 2011 contracts based on the radv audit methodology prescribed by cms. included in these internal contract level audits was an audit of our private fee-for-service business 25 table of contents which we used to represent a proxy of the benchmark audit data in the government fee-for-service program which has not yet been released. we based our accrual of estimated audit settlements for contract years 2011 (the first year that application of extrapolated audit results is applicable) and 2012 on the results of these internal contract level audits for contract year 2011. estimates derived from these results were not material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. however, as indicated, we are awaiting additional guidance from cms regarding the benchmark audit data in the government fee-for-service program. accordingly, we cannot determine whether such audits will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. our cms contracts which cover members prescription drugs under medicare part d contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. these provisions, certain of which are described below, affect our ultimate payments from cms. the premiums from cms are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by cms. variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in cms making additional payments to us or require us to refund to cms a portion of the premiums we received (known as a risk corridor ). we estimate and recognize an adjustment to premiums revenue related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims experience. the estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires us to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility differences with cms. our estimate of the settlement associated with the medicare part d risk corridor provisions was a net payable of $26 million at december 31, 2013. reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms in connection with the medicare part d program for which we assume no risk. reinsurance subsidies represent payments for cms portion of claims costs which exceed the member out-of-pocket threshold, or the catastrophic coverage level. low-income cost subsidies represent payments from cms for all or a portion of the deductible, the coinsurance and co-payment amounts above the out-of-pocket threshold for low-income beneficiaries. monthly prospective payments from cms for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. a reconciliation and settlement of cms prospective subsidies against actual prescription drug costs we paid is made after the end of the year. settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies as well as the risk corridor payment is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. this reconciliation process requires us to submit claims data necessary for cms to administer the program. our claims data may not pass cms claims edit processes due to various reasons, including discrepancies in eligibility or classification of low-income members. to the extent our data does not pass cms claim edit processes, we may bear the risk for all or a portion of the claim which otherwise may have been subject to the risk corridor provision or payment which we would have otherwise received as a low-income subsidy or reinsurance claim. in addition, in the event the settlement represents an amount cms owes us, there is a negative impact on our cash flows and financial condition as a result of financing cms share of the risk. the opposite is true in the event the settlement represents an amount we owe cms. the budget control act of 2011, enacted on august 2, 2011, increased the united states debt ceiling conditioned on deficit reductions to be achieved over the next ten years. the budget control act of 2011 also established a twelve-member joint committee of congress known as the joint select committee on deficit reduction to propose legislation to reduce the united states federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. the failure of the joint select committee on deficit reduction to achieve a targeted deficit reduction by december 23, 2011 triggered an automatic reduction, including aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. these reductions took effect on april 1, 2013, and the bipartisan budget act of 2013, enacted on december 26, 2013, extended the reductions for two years. we expect a corresponding substantial 26 table of contents reduction in our obligations to providers. due to the uncertainty around the application of any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we can completely offset any reductions to the medicare healthcare programs applied by the budget control act of 2011. we are also subject to various other governmental audits and investigations. under state laws, our hmos and health insurance companies are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance. our hmos are audited for compliance with health services by state departments of health. audits and investigations are also conducted by state attorney generals, cms, the office of the inspector general of health and human services, the office of personnel management, the department of justice, the department of labor, and the defense contract audit agency. all of these activities could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in various programs, including a limitation on our ability to market or sell products, the imposition of fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions, or changes in our business practices. the outcome of any current or future governmental or internal investigations cannot be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. nevertheless, it is reasonably possible that any such outcome of litigation, penalties, fines or other sanctions could be substantial, and the outcome of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. certain of these matters could also affect our reputation. in addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our industry or our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. recently implemented health care reform, including the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs by, among other things, requiring a minimum benefit ratio on insured products, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with a non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows. in addition, if we are unable to adjust our business model to address the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments, including a three-year commercial reinsurance fee, such as through the reduction of our operating costs or adjustments to premium pricing or benefit design, there can be no assurance that the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the health care reform law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the u.s. health insurance industry. while regulations and interpretive guidance on many provisions of the health care reform law have been issued to date by the department of health and human services, or hhs, the department of labor, the treasury department, and the national association of insurance commissioners, there are certain provisions of the law that will require additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impact of the law on our overall business. the provisions of the health care reform law include, among others, imposing a significant new non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments on health insurers, limiting medicare advantage payment rates, stipulating a prescribed minimum ratio for the amount of premiums revenue to be expended on medical costs for insured products, additional mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, requirements that limit the ability of health plans to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, and heightened scrutiny by state and federal regulators of our business practices, including our medicare bid and pricing practices. the health care reform law also specifies benefit design guidelines, limits rating and pricing practices, encourages additional competition (including potential incentives 27 table of contents for new market entrants), establishes federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges for individuals and small employers (with up to 100 employees) coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, and expands eligibility for medicaid programs. in addition, the health care reform law has increased and will continue to increase federal oversight of health plan premium rates and could adversely affect our ability to appropriately adjust health plan premiums on a timely basis. financing for these reforms will come, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us and other health plans and individuals beginning in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. implementation dates of the provisions of the health care reform law began in september 2010 and continue through 2018. implementing regulations and related interpretive guidance continue to be issued on certain provisions of the health care reform law. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the health care reform law will change the way we do business, potentially impacting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels. the response of other companies to health care reform law and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could cause meaningful disruption in the local health care markets. it is reasonably possible that the health care reform law and related regulations, as well as future legislative changes, including legislative restrictions on our ability to manage our provider network, in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs, lowering our medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows (including the receipt of amounts due under the commercial risk adjustment, risk corridor, and reinsurance provisions of the health care reform law in 2015 related to claims paid in 2014). if we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of the health care reform law, our business may be materially adversely affected. in addition, if we are unable to adjust our business model to address the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments, including a three-year commercial reinsurance fee, such as through the reduction of our operating costs or adjustments to premium pricing or benefit design, there can be no assurance that the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our participation in, and the operational functionality of, the new federal and state health insurance exchanges, which have experienced certain technical difficulties in their early implementation, and which entail uncertainties associated with mix and volume of business, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the health care reform law requires the establishment of health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers to purchase health insurance that became effective january 1, 2014. open enrollment on the exchanges began on october 1, 2013 and continues until march 31, 2014. among other things, the exchanges have websites where individuals and small employers can shop for and purchase health insurance. certain health insurance exchange websites have experienced technical difficulties in their early implementation. the accessibility and functionality of the exchange websites and the accuracy of the information we are provided from them by the federal and state governments are central to both the enrollment process and our ability to understand and service this new member population. the health care reform law requires insurers participating on the health insurance exchanges to offer a minimum level of benefits and includes guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. we may be adversely selected by individuals who have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants in this market. in addition, the risk corridor, reinsurance, and risk adjustment provisions of the health care reform law, established to apportion risk for insurers, may not be effective in appropriately mitigating the financial risks related to our products. when we established premiums, we had limited information about the individuals accessing these newly established exchanges. in addition, regulatory changes to the implementation of the health 28 table of contents care reform law that allowed individuals to remain in plans that are not compliant with the health care reform law may have an adverse effect on our pool of participants in the health insurance exchange. all of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows if our premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions used in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business activities are subject to substantial government regulation. new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their manner of application, including reductions in medicare advantage payment rates, could increase our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition to the health care reform law, the health care industry in general and health insurance are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation: health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (hitech act) the use of individually identifiable health data by our business is regulated at federal and state levels. these laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. various state laws address the use and maintenance of individually identifiable health data. most are derived from the privacy provisions in the federal gramm-leach-bliley act and the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa. hipaa includes administrative provisions directed at simplifying electronic data interchange through standardizing transactions, establishing uniform health care provider, payer, and employer identifiers, and seeking protections for confidentiality and security of patient data. the rules do not provide for complete federal preemption of state laws, but rather preempt all inconsistent state laws unless the state law is more stringent. these regulations set standards for the security of electronic health information. violations of these rules could subject us to significant criminal and civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. hipaa can also expose us to additional liability for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans and providers). the hitech act, one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, significantly broadened the scope of the privacy and security regulations of hipaa. on january 17, 2013, hhs issued the omnibus final rule on hipaa privacy, security, breach notification requirements and enforcement requirements under the hitech act, and a final regulation for required changes to the hipaa privacy rule for the genetic information nondiscrimination act, or gina. the omnibus final rule became effective on march 26, 2013, with a compliance date of september 23, 2013. among other requirements, the hitech act and omnibus final rule mandates individual notification in the event of a breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information, provides enhanced penalties for hipaa violations, requires business associates to comply with certain provisions of the hipaa privacy and security rule, and grants enforcement authority to states attorney generals in addition to the hhs office of civil rights. in addition, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. state statutes and regulations vary from state to state and could impose additional penalties. violations of hipaa or applicable federal or state laws or regulations could subject us to significant criminal or civil penalties, including significant monetary penalties. compliance with hipaa and other privacy regulations requires significant systems enhancements, training and administrative effort. 29 table of contents american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) on february 17, 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was enacted into law. in addition to including a temporary subsidy for health care continuation coverage issued pursuant to the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act, or cobra, arra also expands and strengthens the privacy and security provisions of hipaa and imposes additional limits on the use and disclosure of protected health information, or phi. among other things, arra requires us and other covered entities to report any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi to any impacted individuals and to the u.s. department of health and human services in those instances where the unauthorized activity poses a significant risk of financial, reputational or other harm to the individuals, and to notify the media in any states where 500 or more people are impacted by any unauthorized release or use of or access to phi. arra also requires business associates to comply with certain hipaa provisions. arra also establishes higher civil and criminal penalties for covered entities and business associates who fail to comply with hipaa provisions and requires the u.s. department of health and human services to issue regulations implementing its privacy and security enhancements. workers compensation laws and regulations in performing services for the workers compensation industry through our subsidiary concentra, we must comply with applicable state workers compensation laws. workers compensation laws generally require employers to assume financial responsibility for medical costs, lost wages, and related legal costs of work-related illnesses and injuries. these laws generally establish the rights of workers to receive benefits and to appeal benefit denials, prohibit charging medical co-payments or deductibles to employees, may restrict employers rights to select healthcare providers or direct an injured employee to a specific provider to receive non-emergency workers compensation medical care, and may include special requirements for physicians providing non-emergency care for workers compensation patients, including requiring registration with the state agency governing workers compensation, as well as special continuing education and training, licensing and other regulatory requirements. to the extent that we are governed by these regulations, we may be subject to additional licensing requirements, financial oversight, and procedural standards for beneficiaries and providers. corporate practice of medicine and other laws as a corporate entity, humana inc. is not licensed to practice medicine. many states in which we operate through our subsidiaries limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. under management agreements between certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed healthcare providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. we believe that our health services operations comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, and similar issues. however, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these statutes, which could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business, may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. anti-kickback, physician self-referral, and other fraud and abuse laws a federal law commonly referred to as the anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of medicare or other governmental health program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease, or order of items or services that are covered by medicare or other federal governmental health programs. because the prohibitions contained in the anti-kickback statute apply to the furnishing of items or services for which 30 table of contents payment is made in whole or in part, the anti-kickback statute could be implicated if any portion of an item or service we provide is covered by any of the state or federal health benefit programs described above. violation of these provisions constitutes a felony criminal offense and applicable sanctions could include exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. section 1877 of the social security act, commonly known as the stark law, prohibits physicians, subject to certain exceptions described below, from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity providing designated health services in which the physician, or an immediate family member, has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has entered into a compensation arrangement. these prohibitions, contained in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1993, commonly known as stark ii, amended prior federal physician self-referral legislation known as stark i by expanding the list of designated health services to a total of 11 categories of health services. the professional groups with which we are affiliated provide one or more of these designated health services. persons or entities found to be in violation of the stark law are subject to denial of payment for services furnished pursuant to an improper referral, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. many states also have enacted laws similar in scope and purpose to the anti-kickback statute and, in more limited instances, the stark law, that are not limited to services for which medicare or medicaid payment is made. in addition, most states have statutes, regulations, or professional codes that restrict a physician from accepting various kinds of remuneration in exchange for making referrals. these laws vary from state to state and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. in states that have enacted these statutes, we believe that regulatory authorities and state courts interpreting these statutes may regard federal law under the anti-kickback statute and the stark law as persuasive. we believe that our operations comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, and similar federal or state laws addressing fraud and abuse. these laws are subject to modification and changes in interpretation, and are enforced by authorities vested with broad discretion. we continually monitor developments in this area. if these laws are interpreted in a manner contrary to our interpretation or are reinterpreted or amended, or if new legislation is enacted with respect to healthcare fraud and abuse, illegal remuneration, or similar issues, we may be required to restructure our affected operations to maintain compliance with applicable law. there can be no assurances that any such restructuring will be possible or, if possible, would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. environmental we are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment. if an environmental regulatory agency finds any of our facilities to be in violation of environmental laws, penalties and fines may be imposed for each day of violation and the affected facility could be forced to cease operations. we could also incur other significant costs, such as cleanup costs or claims by third parties, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. although we believe that our environmental practices, including waste handling and disposal practices, are in material compliance with applicable laws, future claims or violations, or changes in environmental laws, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. state regulation of insurance-related products laws in each of the states (and puerto rico) in which we operate our hmos, ppos and other health insurance-related services regulate our operations including: licensing requirements, policy language describing benefits, mandated benefits and processes, entry, withdrawal or re-entry into a state or market, rate increases, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. the hmo, ppo, and other health insurance-related products we offer are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance regulators. 31 table of contents our licensed insurance subsidiaries are also subject to regulation under state insurance holding company and puerto rico regulations. these regulations generally require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, rates, benefit changes, and certain material transactions, including dividend payments, purchases or sales of assets, intercompany agreements, and the filing of various financial and operational reports. any failure to manage operating costs could hamper profitability. the level of our operating costs impacts our profitability. while we proactively attempt to effectively manage such expenses, increases or decreases in staff-related expenses, additional investment in new products (including our opportunities in the medicare programs, state-based contracts, participation in health insurance exchanges, and expansion of clinical capabilities as part of our integrated care delivery model), investments in health and well-being product offerings, acquisitions, new taxes and assessments (including the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments under the health care reform law), and implementation of other regulatory requirements may occur from time to time. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contain our operating costs in line with our membership and this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, transactions outside of our core business space, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. the failure to successfully integrate acquired entities and businesses or failure to produce results consistent with the financial model used in the analysis of our acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with the providers of care to our members, our business may be adversely affected. we employ or contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers to deliver health care to our members. our products encourage or require our customers to use these contracted providers. a key component of our integrated care delivery strategy is increases in the number of providers who share medical cost risk with us or have financial incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs for us, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, some providers, particularly hospitals, physician specialty groups, physician/hospital organizations, or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions and negotiating power. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate unfavorable contracts with us or place us at a competitive disadvantage, or do not enter into contracts with us that encourage the delivery of quality medical services in a cost-effective manner, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas may be adversely affected. 32 table of contents in some situations, we have contracts with individual or groups of primary care providers for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month fee under which physicians are paid an amount to provide a basket of required medical services to our members. this type of contract is referred to as a capitation contract. the inability of providers to properly manage costs under these capitation arrangements can result in the financial instability of these providers and the termination of their relationship with us. in addition, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. the financial instability or failure of a primary care provider to pay other providers for services rendered could lead those other providers to demand payment from us even though we have made our regular fixed payments to the primary provider. there can be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our pharmacy business is highly competitive and subjects us to regulations in addition to those we face with our core health benefits businesses. our pharmacy business competes with locally owned drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, and internet companies as well as other mail-order and long-term care pharmacies. our pharmacy business also subjects us to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. the practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. many of the states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail-order pharmacies to register with that state board of pharmacy. in addition, some states have proposed laws to regulate online pharmacies, and we may be subject to this legislation if it is passed. federal agencies further regulate our pharmacy operations. pharmacies must register with the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. in addition, the fda inspects facilities in connection with procedures to effect recalls of prescription drugs. the federal trade commission also has requirements for mail-order sellers of goods. the u.s. postal service, or usps, has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail to a degree that may have an adverse effect on our mail-order operations. the usps historically has exercised this statutory authority only with respect to controlled substances. if the usps restricts our ability to deliver drugs through the mail, alternative means of delivery are available to us. however, alternative means of delivery could be significantly more expensive. the department of transportation has regulatory authority to impose restrictions on drugs inserted in the stream of commerce. these regulations generally do not apply to the usps and its operations. in addition, we are subject to cms rules regarding the administration of our pdp plans and intercompany pricing between our pdp plans and our pharmacy business. we are also subject to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, and the application of state laws related to the operation of internet and mail-order pharmacies. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may expose us to civil and criminal penalties. changes in the prescription drug industry pricing benchmarks may adversely affect our financial performance. contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. these benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as awp, average selling price, which is referred to as asp, and wholesale acquisition cost. it is uncertain whether payors, pharmacy providers, pharmacy benefit managers, or pbms, and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize awp as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for medicare and medicaid programs. regulators have conducted investigations into the use of awp for federal program payment, and whether the use of awp has inflated drug expenditures by the medicare and medicaid programs. 33 table of contents federal and state proposals have sought to change the basis for calculating payment of certain drugs by the medicare and medicaid programs. adoption of asp in lieu of awp as the measure for determining payment by medicare or medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our mail-order pharmacy business may reduce the revenues and gross margins of this business which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and volume rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. we have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts and volume rebates on certain prescription drugs dispensed through our mail-order and specialty pharmacies. these discounts and volume rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts. changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, and purchase discount and volume rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, may reduce the discounts or volume rebates we receive and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our ability to obtain funds from certain of our licensed subsidiaries is restricted by state insurance regulations. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund the obligations of humana inc., our parent company. certain of our insurance subsidiaries operate in states that regulate the payment of dividends, loans, or other cash transfers to humana inc., and require minimum levels of equity as well as limit investments to approved securities. the amount of dividends that may be paid to humana inc. by these insurance subsidiaries, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, or ordinary dividends, is limited based on the entity level of statutory income and statutory capital and surplus. in most states, prior notification is provided before paying a dividend even if approval is not required. actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. although minimum required levels of equity are largely based on premium volume, product mix, and the quality of assets held, minimum requirements vary significantly at the state level. our state regulated insurance subsidiaries had aggregate statutory capital and surplus of approximately $5.5 billion and $5.1 billion as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which exceeded aggregate minimum regulatory requirements of $3.5 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from our parent company. excluding puerto rico subsidiaries, the amount of ordinary dividends that may be paid to our parent company in 2014 is approximately $840 million in the aggregate. this compares to dividends that were paid to our parent company in 2013 of approximately $967 million. however, actual dividends paid from the subsidiaries to the parent in 2014 could be reduced as a result of the proposed statutory accounting for the health insurance industry fee, discussed below, combined with higher surplus requirements associated with premium growth due to increases in membership. the naic is continuing discussions regarding the statutory accounting for the health insurance industry fee required by the health care reform law which in its present form would restrict surplus in the year preceding payment, beginning in 2014. accordingly, in addition to recording the full-year 2014 assessment in the first quarter of 2014, we may be required to restrict surplus for the 2015 assessment ratably in 2014. in 2014, we expect to pay the federal government in the range of $525 million to $575 million for the annual health insurance industry fee. in 2015, the health insurance industry fee increases by 41% for the industry taken as a whole. accordingly, absent changes in market share, we would expect a similar increase in our fee in 2015. the health insurance industry fee is not deductible for tax purposes. dividends from our non-insurance companies such as in our healthcare services segment are generally not restricted by departments of insurance. 34 table of contents in the event that we are unable to provide sufficient capital to fund the obligations of humana inc., our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our 7.20%, 8.15%, 3.15%, and 4.625% senior notes contain a change of control provision that may require us to purchase the notes under certain circumstances. our 7.20% and 8.15% senior notes are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the notes are downgraded (or subsequently upgraded). in addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock and should not be relied upon as such. historically, rating agencies take action to lower ratings due to, among other things, perceived concerns about liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. in addition, rating agencies have come under regulatory and public scrutiny over the ratings assigned to various fixed-income products. as a result, rating agencies may (i) become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, (ii) increase the frequency or scope of their credit reviews, (iii) request additional information from the companies that they rate, or (iv) adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. we believe that some of our customers place importance on our credit ratings, and we may lose customers and compete less successfully if our ratings were to be downgraded. in addition, our credit ratings affect our ability to obtain investment capital on favorable terms. if our credit ratings were to be lowered, our cost of borrowing likely would increase, our sales and earnings could decrease, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. changes in economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. the u.s. economy continues to experience a period of slow economic growth and high unemployment. we have closely monitored the impact that this volatile economy is having on our operations. workforce reductions have caused corresponding membership losses in our fully-insured commercial group business. continued weakness in the u.s. economy, and any continued high unemployment, may materially adversely affect our medical membership, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. additionally, the continued weakness of the u.s. economy has adversely affected the budget of individual states and of the federal government. this could result in attempts to reduce payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the medicare, military services, and medicaid programs, and could result in an increase in taxes and assessments on our activities. we cannot predict the future funding levels of, or other such changes to, these programs. although we could attempt to mitigate or cover our exposure from increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to mitigate or cover all of such costs which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 35 table of contents in addition, general inflationary pressures may affect the costs of medical and other care, increasing the costs of claims expenses submitted to us. the securities and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption, which may adversely affect our business. volatility or disruption in the securities and credit markets could impact our investment portfolio. we evaluate our investment securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. this review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. for the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities sold is based upon specific identification. for debt securities held, we recognize an impairment loss in income when the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, or if a credit loss has occurred. when we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairments are considered using variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. for debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. we continuously review our investment portfolios and there is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. we believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, acquisitions, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months, as well as to refinance or repay debt, and repurchase shares. however, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect the availability of credit. while there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we have no reason to believe the lenders participating in our credit agreement will not be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the agreement. our access to additional credit will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, both to the overall market and our industry, our credit ratings and debt capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds could be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies were to take negative actions against us. if a combination of these factors were to occur, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. given the current economic climate, our stock and the stocks of other companies in the insurance industry may be increasingly subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. since 2008, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility. company-specific issues and market developments generally in the insurance industry and in the regulatory environment may have contributed to this volatility. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to materially fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: the enactment of, and the potential for additional, health care reform; general economic conditions; quarterly variations in operating results; natural disasters, terrorist attacks and epidemics; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; 36 table of contents operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; press releases or negative publicity relating to our competitors or us or relating to trends in our markets; regulatory changes; adverse outcomes from litigation and government or regulatory investigations; sales of stock by insiders; changes in our credit ratings; limitations on premium levels or the ability to raise premiums on existing policies; increases in minimum capital, reserves, and other financial strength requirements; and limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock. these factors could materially reduce our stock price. in addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 87 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings and financial position are exposed to financial market risk, including those resulting from changes in interest rates. the level of our pretax earnings is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the resulting impact on investment income and interest expense. prior to 2009, under interest rate swap agreements, we exchanged the fixed interest rate under all of our senior notes for a variable interest rate based on libor using interest rate swap agreements. we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements in 2008. we may re-enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future depending on market conditions and other factors. amounts borrowed under the revolving credit portion of our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement bear interest at either libor plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. there were no borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at december 31, 2013 or december 31, 2012. interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting our consolidated financial position due to our significant investment portfolio, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities of investment-grade quality with a weighted average s&amp;p credit rating of aa- at december 31, 2013. our net unrealized position declined $478 million from a net unrealized gain position of $728 million at december 31, 2012 to a net unrealized gain position of $250 million at december 31, 2013. at december 31, 2013, we had gross unrealized losses of $127 million on our investment portfolio primarily due to an increase in market interest rates and tighter liquidity conditions in the current markets than when the securities were purchased, and as such, there were no material other-than-temporary impairments during 2013. while we believe that these impairments are temporary and we currently do not have the intent to sell such securities, given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. duration is the time-weighted average of the present value of the bond portfolio cash flow. duration is indicative of the relationship between changes in fair value and changes in interest rates, providing a general indication of the sensitivity of the fair values of our fixed maturity securities to changes in interest rates. however, actual fair values may differ significantly from estimates based on duration. the average duration of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, was approximately 4.3 years as of december 31, 2013 and 4.0 years as of december 31, 2012. based on the duration including cash equivalents, a 1% increase in interest rates would generally decrease the fair value of our securities by approximately $462 million. we have also evaluated the impact on our investment income and interest expense resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100, 200, and 300 basis points over the next twelve-month period, as reflected in the following table. the evaluation was based on our investment portfolio and our outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2013 and 2012. our investment portfolio consists of cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities. the modeling technique used to calculate the pro forma net change in pretax earnings considered the cash flows related to fixed income investments and debt, which are subject to interest rate changes during a prospective twelve-month period. this evaluation measures parallel shifts in interest rates and may not account for certain unpredictable events that may affect interest income, including unexpected changes of cash flows into and out of the portfolio, changes in the asset allocation, including shifts between taxable and tax-exempt securities, and spread changes specific to various investment categories. in the past ten years, changes in 3 month libor rates during the year have exceeded 300 basis points once, have not changed between 200 and 87 table of contents 300 basis points, have changed between 100 and 200 basis points four times, and have changed by less than 100 basis points five times. increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate decrease of x basis points increase (decrease) in pretax earnings given an interest rate increase of x basis points (300) (200) (100) 100 200 300 (in millions) as of december 31, 2013 investment income (a) $ (24 ) $ (16 ) $ (8 ) $ 26 $ 52 $ 79 interest expense (b) 0 0 0 0 0 0 pretax $ (24 ) $ (16 ) $ (8 ) $ 26 $ 52 $ 79 as of december 31, 2012 investment income (a) $ (16 ) $ (16 ) $ (10 ) $ 33 $ 68 $ 102 interest expense (b) 0 0 0 0 0 0 pretax $ (16 ) $ (16 ) $ (10 ) $ 33 $ 68 $ 102 (a) as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, some of our investments had interest rates below 3% so the assumed hypothetical change in pretax earnings does not reflect the full 3% point reduction. (b) the interest rate under our senior notes is fixed. there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at december 31, 2013 or december 31, 2012. 88 table of contents