risk factors 27 risk factors, including without limitation, we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and we are involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. overview of collaboration partner programs we have a number of product candidates in clinical development and approved products in collaboration with our partners where we invented the drug candidate or where our collaboration partners have licensed our proprietary intellectual property to enable one of their drug candidates. our agreements with collaboration partners may involve several elements including a technology license as well as the development, commercialization, and manufacturing and supply obligations. we typically receive consideration from our collaboration partners in the form of upfront payments, milestone payments and royalties on sales. in certain cases, we also manufacture and supply our proprietary polymer materials to our partners. nktr-358, agreement with eli lilly and company nktr-358 is designed to correct the underlying immune system imbalance in the body which occurs in patients with autoimmune disease. current systemic treatments for autoimmune disease, including corticosteroids and anti-tnf agents, suppress the immune system broadly and come with severe side effects. nktr-358 targets the cd25 sub-receptor in the il-2 pathway in order to stimulate proliferation and growth of regulatory t cells, which are specific immune cells in the body that modulate the immune system and prevent autoimmune disease by maintaining self-tolerance. on july 23, 2017, we entered into the lilly agreement, pursuant to which we and lilly will co develop nktr-358. under the terms of the lilly agreement, we received an initial payment of $150.0 million in september 2017 and are eligible for up to $250.0 million in additional development and regulatory milestones. we are responsible for completing phase 1 clinical development and certain drug product development and supply activities. we will also share phase 2 development costs with lilly, with lilly responsible for 75% and nektar responsible for 25% of these costs. we will have the option to contribute funding to phase 3 development on an indication-by-indication basis, ranging from zero to 25% of the global phase 3 development costs. we are eligible to receive up to double-digit sales royalty rates that escalate based upon our contribution to phase 3 development costs and the level of global product annual sales. lilly will be responsible for all costs of global commercialization and we will have an option to co-promote in the u.s. under certain conditions. we have completed a phase 1 dose-finding trial of nktr-358 to evaluate single-ascending doses of nktr-358 in approximately 100 healthy patients. results from this study demonstrated a multiple-fold increase in regulatory t cells with no change in cd8 positive or natural killer cell levels and no dose-limiting toxicities were observed. we also completed treatment of a phase 1 multiple-ascending dose trial to evaluate nktr-358 in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). lilly is expected to initiate a phase 2 study in sle in mid-2020 and to start an additional phase 2 study in another auto-immune disease in 2020. these clinical studies are in addition to the two ongoing phase 1b studies in patients with psoriasis and atopic dermatitis being run by lilly. adynovate (previously referred to as bax 855), adynovi (brand name for adynovate in europe) and longer-acting blood clotting proteins for hemophilia a, agreement with subsidiaries of baxalta incorporated in september 2005, we entered into an exclusive research, development, license, manufacturing and supply agreement (baxalta license agreement) with certain subsidiaries of baxalta (which has been acquired by takeda), to develop products with an extended half-life for the treatment and prophylaxis of hemophilia a patients using our proprietary pegylation technology. the first product in this collaboration, adynovate (previously referred to as bax 855), is a longer-acting (pegylated) form of a full-length recombinant factor viii (rfviii) protein that was developed to increase the half-life of advate (antihemophilic factor (recombinant) plasma/albumin-free method). adynovate was first approved by the fda on november 30, 2015. since then it has been approved in one or more indications for hemophilia a in the eu, japan, and other countries around the world. 14 table of contents we are entitled to $35.0 million of sales milestone payments, as well as royalties on net sales varying by product and country of sale. with regard to the sales milestone payments, we received a $10.0 million dollar milestone payment in 2019 for annual net sales in 2018 achieving the sales milestone specified in the baxalta license agreement for this payment. with regard to royalties, our royalties start in the mid-single digits for net sales of adynovate up to $1.2 billion and then in the low teens for net sales exceeding $1.2 billion. our right to receive these royalties in any particular country will expire upon the later of ten years after the first commercial sale of the product in that country or the expiration of patent rights in certain designated countries or in that particular country. in october 2017, we entered into a right to sublicense agreement with baxalta, under which we granted to baxalta the right to grant a nonexclusive sublicense to certain patents to a third party that were previously exclusively licensed to baxalta under the baxalta license agreement. under the right to sublicense agreement, baxalta paid us $12.0 million in november 2017 and agreed to pay us single digit royalty payments based upon net sales of the third party products covered under the sublicense throughout the term of the right to sublicense agreement. hemophilia a, also called factor viii (fviii) deficiency or classic hemophilia, is a genetic disorder caused by missing or defective factor viii, a clotting protein. according to the us centers for disease control and prevention, hemophilia occurs in approximately one in 5,000 live births and there are about 20,000 people with hemophilia in the us. all races and ethnic groups are affected. hemophilia a is four times as common as hemophilia b while more than half of patients with hemophilia a have the severe form of hemophilia. according to 360 research reports, the worldwide market for human coagulation factor viii products was $7.4 billion in 2019. movantik and moventig (brand name for movantik in europe), agreement with astrazeneca ab in september 2009, we entered into a global license agreement with astrazeneca ab (astrazeneca) pursuant to which we granted astrazeneca a worldwide, exclusive, perpetual, royalty-bearing license under our patents and other intellectual property to develop, market and sell movantik . movantik was developed using our oral small molecule polymer conjugate technology and we advanced this drug through the completion of phase 2 clinical studies prior to licensing it to astrazeneca. movantik is an orally-available peripherally-acting mu-opioid antagonist which is a medication for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (oic), which is a common side effect of prescription opioid medications. opioids attach to specific proteins called opioid receptors. when the opioids attach to certain opioid receptors in the gastrointestinal tract, constipation may occur. oic is a result of decreased fluid absorption and lower gastrointestinal motility due to opioid receptor binding in the gastrointestinal tract. on september 16, 2014, the fda approved movantik as the first once-daily oral peripherally-acting mu-opioid receptor antagonist (pamora) medication for the treatment of oic in adult patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. on december 9, 2014, the european commission, or ec, granted marketing authorisation to moventig (the naloxegol brand name in the eu) as the first once-daily oral pamora to be approved in the eu for the treatment of oic in adult patients who have had an inadequate response to laxative(s). the ec's approval applies to all eu member countries plus iceland and norway. astrazeneca launched the commercial sales of movantik in the u.s. in march 2015 and moventig in germany, the first eu member country, in august 2015. under the terms of our license agreement with astrazeneca, astrazeneca made an initial license payment of $125.0 million to us and has responsibility for all activities and bears all costs associated with research, development and commercialization for movantik . we received milestone payments of $70.0 million and $25.0 million upon the acceptance of regulatory approval applications of movantik by the fda and the ema, respectively, in 2013. we received an additional developmental milestone payment of $35.0 million upon the fda's approval of movantik in 2014 and a total of $140.0 million upon commercial launches in 2015, including $100.0 million for movantik in the u.s. and $40.0 million for moventig in germany. we are also entitled to up to $375.0 million in sales milestones for movantik if the program achieves certain annual commercial sales levels and significant double-digit royalty payments starting at 20% of net sales in the u.s. and, for countries astrazeneca has not entered into sublicensing agreements, 18% of net sales in rest of world. on march 1, 2016, astrazeneca announced that it had entered into an agreement with kyowa hakko kirin co. ltd. (kirin), granting kirin exclusive marketing rights to moventig in the eu, iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland. nektar's receipt of a 40% share of royalty payments made by kirin to astrazeneca will be financially equivalent to nektar receiving high single-digit to low double-digit royalties depending on kirin's annual net sales levels. our right to receive royalties (subject to certain adjustments) in any particular country will expire upon the later of (a) a specified period of time after the first commercial sale of the product in that country or (b) the expiration of patent rights in that particular country. astrazeneca has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop one movantik fixed-dose combination product and has the right to develop multiple products which combine movantik with opioids. there are a number of patents relevant to movantik , some of which are listed in the fda's orange book. the orange book currently lists six patents for movantik . four patents (i.e., u.s. patent nos. 7,056,500, 7,662,365, 15 table of contents 7,786,133 and 9,012,469) are composition of matter patents, one of which has a patent expiry extending into 2032. in addition, two patents (i.e., u.s. patent nos. 8,067,431 and 8,617,530) are directed to methods of treatment. cimzia , agreement with ucb in december 2000, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement covering our proprietary pegylation materials for use in cimzia (certolizumab pegol) with celltech chiroscience ltd., which was acquired by ucb in 2004. under the terms of the agreement, ucb is responsible for all clinical development, regulatory, and commercialization expenses. we also manufacture and supply ucb with our proprietary pegylation reagent used in the manufacture of cimzia on a fixed price per gram. we were also entitled to receive royalties on net sales of the cimzia product for the longer of ten years from the first commercial sale of the product anywhere in the world or the expiration of patent rights in a particular country. in february 2012, we sold our rights to receive royalties on future worldwide net sales of cimzia effective as of january 1, 2012 until the agreement with ucb is terminated or expires. this sale is further discussed in note 7 of our consolidated financial statements. our agreement with ucb pharma expires upon the expiration of all of ucb's royalty obligations, provided that the agreement can be extended for successive two year renewal periods upon mutual agreement of the parties. in addition, ucb may terminate the agreement should it cease the development and marketing of cimzia and either party may terminate for cause under certain conditions. mircera (c.e.r.a.) (continuous erythropoietin receptor activator), agreement with f. hoffmann-la roche ltd and hoffmann-la roche inc. in december 2000, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement with f. hoffmann-la roche ltd and hoffmann-la roche inc. (roche), which was amended and restated in its entirety in december 2005. pursuant to the agreement, we license our intellectual property related to our proprietary pegylation materials for the manufacture and commercialization of roche's mircera product. mircera is a novel continuous erythropoietin receptor activator indicated for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic kidney disease in patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis. as of the end of 2006, we were no longer required to manufacture and supply our proprietary pegylation materials for mircera under our original agreement. in february 2012, we entered into a toll-manufacturing agreement with roche under which we manufactured our proprietary pegylation material for mircera . roche entered into the toll-manufacturing agreement with the objective of establishing us as a secondary back-up source on a non-exclusive basis through december 31, 2016. under the terms of this agreement, roche paid us an up-front payment of $5.0 million plus a total of $22.0 million in performance-based milestone payments upon our achievement of certain manufacturing readiness, validation and production milestones, including the delivery of specified quantities of pegylation materials, all of which were successfully completed by the end of january 2013. in 2013, we delivered additional quantities of pegylation materials used by roche to produce pegasys and mircera for total consideration of approximately $18.6 million. we were also entitled to receive royalties on net sales of the mircera product. in february 2012, we sold all of our future rights to receive royalties on future worldwide net sales of mircera effective as of january 1, 2012. this sale is further discussed in note 7 of our consolidated financial statements. as of december 31, 2016, we no longer had any continuing manufacturing or supply obligations under this mircera agreement. macugen , agreement with bausch health companies inc., formerly valeant pharmaceuticals international, inc. in 2002, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement with eyetech, inc. (subsequently acquired by valeant pharmaceuticals international, inc. or valeant), pursuant to which we license certain intellectual property related to our proprietary pegylation technology for the development and commercialization of macugen , a pegylated anti-vascular endothelial growth factor aptamer currently approved in the u.s. and eu for age-related macular degeneration. under the terms of the agreement, we will receive royalties on net product sales in any particular country for the longer of ten years from the date of the first commercial sale of the product in that country or the duration of patent coverage. our agreement with valeant expires upon the expiration of our last relevant patent containing a valid claim. in addition, valeant may terminate the agreement if marketing authorization is withdrawn or marketing is no longer feasible due to certain circumstances, and either party may terminate for cause if certain conditions are met. somavert , agreement with pfizer, inc. in january 2000, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement (lms agreement) with sensus drug development corporation (subsequently acquired by pharmacia corp. in 2001 and then acquired by pfizer in 2003), for the pegylation of somavert (pegvisomant), a human growth hormone receptor antagonist for the treatment of acromegaly. in january 2017, we entered into a master material supply agreement (supply agreement) with pfizer, in which the lms agreement was terminated. we currently manufacture our proprietary pegylation reagent for pfizer on a price per gram basis 16 table of contents under the supply agreement. our obligation under the supply agreement to supply our proprietary pegylation reagent to pfizer continues until december 31, 2023. neulasta , agreement with amgen, inc. in july 1995, we entered into a non-exclusive supply and license agreement (the 1995 agreement) with amgen, inc., pursuant to which we licensed our proprietary pegylation technology to be used in the development and manufacture of neulasta . neulasta selectively stimulates the production of neutrophils that are depleted by cytotoxic chemotherapy, a condition called neutropenia that makes it more difficult for the body to fight infections. on october 29, 2010, we amended and restated the 1995 agreement by entering into a supply, dedicated suite and manufacturing guarantee agreement (the 2010 agreement) and an amended and restated license agreement with amgen inc. and amgen manufacturing, limited (together referred to as amgen). under the terms of the 2010 agreement, we guarantee the manufacture and supply of our proprietary pegylation materials (polymer materials) to amgen in an existing manufacturing suite to be used exclusively for the manufacture of polymer materials for amgen in our manufacturing facility in huntsville, alabama. this supply arrangement is on a non-exclusive basis (other than the use of the manufacturing suite and certain equipment) whereby we are free to manufacture and supply the polymer materials to any other third party and amgen is free to procure the polymer materials from any other third party. under the terms of the 2010 agreement, we received a $50.0 million upfront payment in return for guaranteeing supply of certain quantities of polymer materials to amgen and the additional rights described below, and amgen will pay manufacturing fees calculated based on fixed and variable components applicable to the polymer materials ordered by amgen and delivered by us. amgen has no minimum purchase commitments. if quantities of the polymer materials ordered by amgen exceed specified quantities (with each specified quantity representing a small portion of the quantity that we historically supplied to amgen), significant additional payments become payable to us in return for guaranteeing supply of additional quantities of the polymer materials. the term of the 2010 agreement runs through october 29, 2020. in the event we become subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, we cease to own or control the manufacturing facility in huntsville, alabama, we fail to manufacture and supply the polymer materials or certain other events occur, amgen or its designated third party will have the right to elect, among certain other options, to take title to the dedicated equipment and access the manufacturing facility to operate the manufacturing suite solely for the purpose of manufacturing the polymer materials (additional rights). amgen may terminate the 2010 agreement for convenience or due to an uncured material default by us. either party may terminate the 2010 agreement in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the other party. dapirolizumab pegol, agreement with ucb pharma s.a. in 2010, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement with ucb pharma s.a., (ucb) under which we granted ucb a worldwide, exclusive license to certain of our proprietary pegylation technology to develop, manufacture and commercialize an anti-cd40l pegylated fab being developed by ucb and their partner biogen idec, for the treatment of autoimmune disorders, including systemic lupus erythemastosus (sle). in 2014, ucb and biogen completed a phase 1b randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study in approximately 24 patients with sle. data from the study was published in september 2015 at the annual american college of rheumatology meeting and showed that multiple administrations of dapirolizumab pegol given over 12 weeks were well-tolerated and the safety profile supported further development of the compound. exploratory analyses from the same study showed greater improvement in clinical measures of disease activity in the dapriolizumab pegol group versus placebo. in 2016, ucb initiated a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, dose-ranging phase 2 clinical study followed by an observational period to evaluate the efficacy and safety of patients with moderately to severely active sle receiving stable standard of care medications. in october 2018, ucb announced that the primary endpoint of the study to demonstrate a dose response at 24 weeks on the british isles lupus assessment group (bilag) based composite lupus assessment (bicla) was not met and stated that it and biogen will continue to further evaluate these data while assessing potential next steps. in july 2019, biogen announced a plan to initiate with ucb a phase 3 study of dapriolizumab pegol in patients with active sle despite standard-of-care treatment. pegph20, agreement with halozyme therapeutics, inc. in december 2006, we entered into a license agreement with halozyme (halozyme license agreement) pursuant to which we granted halozyme a worldwide, limited exclusive license to certain of our proprietary pegylation technology to develop, manufacture and commercialize particular products that use our proprietary pegylation materials linked only with certain qualifying hyaluronidase protein molecules including pegph20. under this license agreement, we are entitled to future development milestones and royalties on net sales subject to reduction in the absence of patent coverage. in addition, pursuant to a december 18, 2013 manufacturing and supply agreement that we entered into with halozyme (halozyme manufacturing 17 table of contents agreement), we were to manufacture and supply halozyme with clinical and future commercial supply of our proprietary pegylation materials used in the manufacture of pegph20. on november 4, 2019, halozyme announced that its phase 3 clinical study evaluating pegph20 as a first-line therapy for treatment of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer failed to reach the primary endpoint of overall survival, and that halozyme intended to halt development activities for pegph20. in december 2019 halozyme and nektar terminated the halozyme manufacturing agreement. halozyme may terminate the halozyme license agreement without cause upon ninety days' prior written notice. government regulation product development and approval process the research and development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of products using our technologies are subject to regulation by the fda and by comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. these national agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate, among other things, research and development activities and the testing (in vitro, in animals, and in human clinical trials), manufacture, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, approval, marketing, advertising and promotion of our products. the approval process required by the fda before a product using any of our technologies may be marketed in the u.s. depends on whether the chemical composition of the product has previously been approved for use in other dosage forms. if the product is a new chemical entity that has not been previously approved, the process includes the following: extensive preclinical laboratory and animal testing; submission of an investigational new drug (ind) prior to commencing clinical trials; adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for the intended indication; extensive pharmaceutical development for the characterization of the chemistry, manufacturing process and controls for the active ingredient and drug product; and submission to the fda of an nda for approval of a drug or a biological license application (bla) for approval of a biological product. if the active chemical ingredient has been previously approved by the fda, the approval process is similar, except that certain preclinical tests, including those relating to systemic toxicity normally required for the ind and nda or bla, and clinical trials, may not be necessary if the company has a right of reference to existing preclinical or clinical data under section 505(j) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (fdca) or is eligible for approval under section 505(b)(2) of the fdca or the biosimilars provisions of the public health services act. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and animal studies to assess the safety and efficacy of the product and its chosen formulation. preclinical safety tests must be conducted by laboratories that comply with fda good laboratory practices (glp) regulations. the results of the preclinical tests for drugs, biological products and combination products subject to the primary jurisdiction of the fda's center for drug evaluation and research (cder) or center for biologics evaluation and research (cber) are submitted to the fda as part of the ind and are reviewed by the fda before clinical trials can begin. clinical trials may begin 30 days after receipt of the ind by the fda, unless the fda raises objections or requires clarification within that period. clinical trials involve the administration of the drug to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified, identified medical investigator according to a protocol submitted in the ind for fda review. drug products to be used in clinical trials must be manufactured according to current good manufacturing practices (cgmp). clinical trials are conducted in accordance with protocols that detail the objectives of the study and the parameters to be used to monitor participant safety and product efficacy as well as other criteria to be evaluated in the study. each protocol is submitted to the fda in the ind. apart from the ind process described above, each clinical study must be reviewed by an independent institutional review board (irb) and the irb must be kept current with respect to the status of the clinical study. the irb considers, among other things, ethical factors, the potential risks to subjects participating in the trial and the possible liability to the institution where the trial is conducted. the irb also reviews and approves the informed consent form to be signed by the trial participants and any significant changes in the clinical study. 18 table of contents clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases. phase 1 involves the initial introduction of the drug into healthy human subjects (in most cases) and the product generally is tested for tolerability, pharmacokinetics, absorption, metabolism and excretion. phase 2 involves studies in a limited patient population to: determine the preliminary efficacy of the product for specific targeted indications; determine dosage and regimen of administration; and identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. if phase 2 trials demonstrate that a product appears to be effective and to have an acceptable safety profile, phase 3 trials are typically undertaken to evaluate the further clinical efficacy and safety of the drug and formulation within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites and in large enough trials to provide statistical proof of efficacy and tolerability. the fda, the clinical trial sponsor, the investigators or the irb may suspend clinical trials at any time if any one of them believes that study participants are being subjected to an unacceptable health risk. in some cases, the fda and the drug sponsor may determine that phase 2 trials are not needed prior to entering phase 3 trials. following a series of formal meetings and communications between the drug sponsor and the regulatory agencies, the results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies are submitted to the fda as an nda or bla for approval of the marketing and commercial shipment of the drug product. the fda may deny approval if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical or pharmaceutical testing or requirements. even if such data are submitted, the fda may ultimately decide that the nda or bla does not satisfy all of the criteria for approval. additionally, the approved labeling may narrowly limit the conditions of use of the product, including the intended uses, or impose warnings, precautions or contraindications which could significantly limit the potential market for the product. further, as a condition of approval, the fda may impose post-market surveillance, or phase 4, studies or risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. product approvals, once obtained, may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if safety concerns arise after the product reaches the market. the fda may require additional post-marketing clinical testing and pharmacovigilance programs to monitor the effect of drug products that have been commercialized and has the power to prevent or limit future marketing of the product based on the results of such programs. after approval, there are ongoing reporting obligations concerning adverse reactions associated with the product, including expedited reports for serious and unexpected adverse events. each manufacturing establishment producing the active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished drug product for the u.s. market must be registered with the fda and typically is inspected by the fda prior to nda or bla approval of a drug product manufactured by such establishment. such inspections are also held periodically after commercialization. establishments handling controlled substances must also be licensed by the u.s. drug enforcement administration. manufacturing establishments of u.s. marketed products are subject to inspections by the fda for compliance with cgmp and other u.s. regulatory requirements. they are also subject to u.s. federal, state, and local regulations regarding workplace safety, environmental protection and hazardous and controlled substance controls, among others. in situations where our partners are responsible for clinical and regulatory approval procedures, we may still participate in this process by submitting to the fda a drug master file developed and maintained by us which contains data concerning the manufacturing processes for polymer conjugation materials or drug product. for our proprietary products, we prepare and submit an ind and are responsible for additional clinical and regulatory procedures for product candidates being developed under an ind. the clinical and manufacturing, development and regulatory review and approval process generally takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. our ability to manufacture and market products, whether developed by us or under collaboration agreements, ultimately depends upon the completion of satisfactory clinical trials and success in obtaining marketing approvals from the fda and equivalent foreign health authorities. sales of our products outside the u.s. are subject to local regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs. such requirements vary widely from country to country. in the u.s., under the orphan drug act, the fda may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the u.s. the company that obtains the first fda approval for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years. in addition, the orphan drug act provides for protocol assistance, tax credits, research grants, and exclusions from user fees for sponsors of orphan products. once a product receives orphan drug exclusivity, a second product that is considered to be the same drug for the same indication generally may be approved during the exclusivity period only if the second product is shown to be clinically superior to the original orphan drug in that it is more effective, safer or otherwise makes a major contribution to patient care or the holder of exclusive approval cannot assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the orphan drug to meet the needs of patients with the disease or condition for which the drug was designated. similar incentives also are available for orphan drugs in the eu. 19 table of contents in the u.s., the fda may grant fast track or breakthrough therapy designation to a product candidate, which allows the fda to expedite the review of new drugs that are intended for serious or life-threatening conditions and that demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. important features of fast track or breakthrough therapy designation include a potentially reduced clinical program and close, early communication between the fda and the sponsor company to improve the efficiency of product development. on august 1, 2019, we and bms announced that the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation for bempegaldesleukin in combination with opdivo for the treatment of patients with previously untreated unresectable or metastatic melanoma. coverage, reimbursement, and pricing sales of any products for which we may obtain regulatory approval depend, in part, on the coverage and reimbursement status of those products. in the u.s., sales of any products for which we may receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. third-party payers include government programs such as medicare, medicaid, tricare and the veterans administration, as well as managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. other countries and jurisdictions will also have their own unique mechanisms for approval and reimbursement. the process for determining whether a payer will provide coverage for a product is typically separate from the process for setting the reimbursement rate that the payer will pay for the product. third-party payers may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list or formulary which might not include all of the fda-approved products for a particular indication. third-party payers may also refuse to include a particular branded drug on their formularies or otherwise restrict patient access to a branded drug when a less costly generic equivalent or other alternative is available. further, private payers often follow the coverage and payment policies established by certain government programs, such as medicare and medicaid, which require manufacturers to comply with certain rebate, price reporting, and other obligations. for example, the medicaid drug rebate program, which is part of the medicaid program (a program for financially needy patients, among others), requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to enter into and have in effect a national rebate agreement with the secretary of the department of health and human services under which the manufacturer agrees to report certain prices to the government and pay rebates to state medicaid programs on outpatient drugs furnished to medicaid patients, as a condition for receiving federal reimbursement for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs furnished to medicaid patients. further, in order for a pharmaceutical product to receive federal reimbursement under medicare part b and medicaid programs or to be sold directly to u.s. government agencies, the manufacturer must extend discounts to entities eligible to participate in the public health service's 340b drug pricing program. third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. additionally, the containment of healthcare costs has become a priority of federal and state governments, and the price of therapeutics have been a focus in this effort. the u.s. government and state legislatures have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls and restrictions on reimbursement, among other controls. adoption of price controls or other cost-containment measures could limit coverage for or the amounts that federal and state governments or private payers will pay for health care products and services, which could also result in reduced demand for our drug candidates or additional pricing pressures and affect our ultimate profitability. if third-party payers do not consider a product to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover an approved product or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products at a profit. the marketability of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payers fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. other healthcare laws and regulations if we obtain regulatory approval of our products, we may be subject to various federal and state laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. these laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales and marketing programs. in addition, we may be subject to patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering, or paying remuneration (a term interpreted broadly to include anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, and credits), directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or 20 table of contents reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order, or recommendation of, an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the medicare and medicaid programs; federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or making a false statement or record material to payment of a false claim or avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money owed to the federal government; provisions of the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, which created new federal criminal statutes, referred to as the hipaa all-payer fraud prohibition, that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters; federal transparency laws, including the federal physician payment sunshine act, which require manufacturers of certain drugs and biologics to track and disclose payments and other transfers of value they make to u.s. physicians (currently defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals as well as physician ownership and investment interests in the manufacturer, and that such information is subsequently made publicly available in a searchable format on a cms website, effective january 1, 2022, these reporting obligations will extend to include transfers of value made to certain non-physician providers such as physician assistants and nurse practitioners; provisions of hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, state transparency reporting and compliance laws; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and which may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. if our product candidates become commercialized, it is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations, agency guidance or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. if our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal, and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid, integrity and oversight agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. defending against any such actions can be costly, time-consuming and may require significant financial and personnel resources. therefore, even if we are successful in defending against any such actions that may be brought against us, our business may be impaired. the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care education reconciliation act (collectively, the affordable care act), enacted in 2010, expanded the reach of the fraud and abuse laws by, among other things, amending the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and the applicable criminal fraud statutes contained within 42 u.s.c. 1320a-7b. pursuant to the affordable care act, a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. in addition, the affordable care act provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. many states have adopted laws similar to the federal anti-kickback statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the medicare and medicaid programs. the federal false claims act prohibits anyone from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to federal programs (including medicare and medicaid) claims for items or services that are false or fraudulent. although we would not submit claims directly to payers, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. in addition, our future activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for our products, the reporting of prices used to calculate medicaid rebate information and other information affecting federal, state, and third-party reimbursement for our products, and the sale and marketing of our products, are subject to scrutiny under this law. for example, pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under the federal 21 table of contents false claims act in connection with their alleged off-label promotion of drugs, purportedly concealing price concessions in the pricing information submitted to the government for government price reporting purposes, and allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal health care programs for the product. penalties for a false claims act violation include three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $11,463 and $23,331 for each separate false claim, the potential for exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, and, although the federal false claims act is a civil statute, conduct that results in a false claims act violation may also implicate various federal criminal statutes. in addition, private individuals have the ability to bring actions under the federal false claims act and certain states have enacted laws modeled after the federal false claims act. in each country or jurisdiction outside of the u.s. in which we seek and receive regulatory approval to commercialize our products, we will be subject to additional laws and regulations specific to those locations. these regulations and laws will also impact, among other things, our proposed sales and marketing programs in those jurisdictions. legislative and regulatory landscape from time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed in congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the testing, approval, manufacturing, marketing, coverage and reimbursement of products regulated by the fda or other government agencies. in addition to new legislation, fda and healthcare fraud and abuse and coverage and reimbursement regulations and policies are often revised or interpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. further, the 2016 presidential and congressional elections and political developments have caused the future state of many core aspects of the current health care marketplace to be uncertain, as the current presidential administration and congress have repeatedly expressed a desire to repeal all or portions of the affordable care act. while specific changes and their timing are not yet apparent, there may be significant changes to the healthcare environment in the future that could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from therapeutic candidates that we may successfully develop and for which we may obtain regulatory approval. furthermore, federal agencies, congress, state legislatures, and the private sector have shown significant interest in implementing cost containment programs to limit the growth of health care costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and other fundamental changes to the healthcare delivery system. any proposed or actual changes could limit coverage for or the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for health care products and services, which could also result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressures and affect our ultimate profitability. patents and proprietary rights we own more than 290 u.s. and 1,000 foreign patents and a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. more specifically, our patents and patent applications cover polymer architecture, drug conjugates, formulations, methods of making polymers and polymer conjugates, methods of administering polymer conjugates, and methods of manufacturing polymers and polymer conjugates. our patent portfolio contains patents and patent applications that encompass our advanced polymer conjugate technology platforms. our patent strategy is to file patent applications on innovations and improvements to cover a significant majority of the major pharmaceutical markets in the world. generally, patents have a term of twenty years from the earliest priority date (assuming all maintenance fees are paid). in some instances, patent terms can be increased or decreased, depending on the laws and regulations of the country or jurisdiction that issued the patent. we also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. others may independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to, or disclose, our trade secrets. please refer to item 1a. risk factors, including but not limited to we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. in certain situations in which we work with drugs covered by one or more patents, our ability to develop and commercialize our technologies may be affected by limitations in our access to these proprietary drugs. even if we believe we are free to work with a proprietary drug, we cannot guarantee that we will not be accused of, or determined to be, infringing a third party's rights and be prohibited from working with the drug or found liable for damages. any such restriction on access or liability for damages would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be held valid and enforceable in a court of law. even for patents that are held valid and enforceable, the legal process associated with obtaining such a judgment is time consuming and costly. additionally, issued patents can be subject to inter partes review, opposition or other proceedings that 22 table of contents can result in the revocation of the patent or maintenance of the patent but in an amended form (and potentially in a form that renders the patent without commercially relevant or broad coverage). further, our competitors may be able to circumvent and otherwise design around our patents. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following the commercialization of products encompassed by our patent. we may have to participate in post-grant proceedings before the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in a loss of the patent and/or substantial cost to us. please refer to item 1a. risk factors, including without limitation, if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights exist that are owned by third parties and relate to pharmaceutical compositions and reagents, and equipment and methods for preparation, packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical compositions. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, of these rights will be considered relevant to our technology by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our partners against any such claims. furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to develop or commercialize some or all of our products in the u.s. and abroad and could result in the award of substantial damages. in the event of a claim of infringement, we or our partners may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternative technology. the failure to obtain licenses if needed may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. please refer to item 1a. risk factors, including without limitation, we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our drug candidates on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. it is our policy to require our employees and consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors who receive confidential information from us to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. these agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual's relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. the agreements provide that all inventions conceived by an employee shall be our property. there can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. customer concentrations our revenue is derived from our collaboration agreements with partners, under which we may receive a combination of revenue elements including up-front payments for licensing agreements, clinical research reimbursement or co-funding, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties and/or product sales revenue. our revenues are concentrated among a limited number of collaboration partners under long-term arrangements. in particular, our collaboration arrangements with bms represent 89% of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2018, and lilly represented 42% of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017, and these arrangements provide for the most significant portion of our potential future development and regulatory milestone payments. the relative portion of such revenues in any particular year, however, is dependent upon the mix of any milestone payments or other license revenues recognized and volume of recurring royalty revenues and product sales. additionally, we derive substantially all of our cash royalty revenue from our collaboration arrangements with takeda for adynovate /adynovi tm and astrazeneca for movantik /moventig and we derive the significant majority of our product sales from ucb and pfizer. backlog pursuant to our collaboration agreements, we manufacture and supply our proprietary polymer conjugation materials. inventory is produced and sales are made pursuant to customer purchase orders for delivery generally based on rolling four to eight quarter forecasts, of which at least two quarters are generally binding. our backlog is not significant, and, in light of industry practice and our own experience, we do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is indicative of future results. competition competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is intense and characterized by aggressive research and development and rapidly-evolving science, technology, and standards of medical care throughout the world. we frequently compete with pharmaceutical companies and other institutions with greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development 23 table of contents but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. science and technology competition we face intense science and technology competition from a multitude of technologies seeking to enhance the efficacy, safety and ease of use of approved drugs and new drug molecule candidates. a number of the drug candidates in our pipeline have direct and indirect competition from large pharmaceutical companies and biopharmaceutical companies. with our advanced polymer conjugate technologies, we believe we have competitive advantages relating to factors such as efficacy, safety, ease of use and cost for certain applications and molecules. we constantly monitor scientific and medical developments in order to improve our current technologies, seek licensing opportunities where appropriate, and determine the best applications for our technology platforms. in the fields of advanced polymer conjugate technologies, our competitors include biogen idec inc., horizon pharma, dr. reddy's laboratories, ltd., mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., sunbio corporation, nof corporation, and novo nordisk a/s (assets formerly held by neose technologies, inc.). several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing advanced polymer conjugate technology or technologies intended to deliver similar scientific and medical benefits. some of these companies license intellectual property or pegylation materials to other companies, while others apply the technology to create their own drug candidates. product and program specific competition bempegaldesleukin (nktr-214) (cd122-preferential il-2 pathway agonist) there are numerous companies engaged in developing immunotherapies to be used alone, or in combination, to treat a wide range of oncology indications targeting both solid and liquid tumors. in particular, we expect to compete with therapies with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, or tils, chimeric antigen receptor-expressing t cells, or car-t, cytokine-based therapies, and checkpoint inhibitors. potential competitors in the til and car-t space include gilead (through its acquisition of kite pharma)/nci, apeiron biologics, philogen s.p.a., brooklyn immunotherapetuics llc, anaveon ag, and adaptimmune llc. in the cytokine-based therapies space, potential competitors include novartis ag, alkermes plc, nantworks llc, eli lilly &amp; co. (through its acquisition of armo biosciences), roche, and sanofi sa (through its acquisition of synthorx, inc.), and in the checkpoint inhibitor space potential competitors include tesaro, inc., macrogenics, inc., merck, bristol-myers squibb, and roche. nktr-358 (il-2 conjugate regulator t cell stimulator) there are a number of competitors in various stages of clinical development that are working on programs which are designed to correct the underlying immune system imbalance in the body due to autoimmune disease. in particular, we expect to compete with therapies that could be cytokine-based therapies (symbiotix, llc, jassen pharmaceuticals, astrazeneca and tizona therapeutics), regulatory t cell therapies (targazyme, inc., caladrius biosciences, inc., and tract therapeutics, inc.), or il-2 based therapies (amgen, inc., celgene corporation (through its acquisition of delnia, inc.), iltoo pharma, and sanofi sa, through its acquisition of synthorx, inc.). movantik (previously referred to as naloxegol and nktr-118) (orally-available peripheral opioid antagonist) there are no other once-daily oral drugs that act specifically to block or reverse the action of opioids on receptors in the gastrointestinal tract which are approved specifically for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (oic) or opioid bowel dysfunction (obd) in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. the only approved oral treatment for opioid-induced constipation in adults with chronic, non-cancer pain is a twice daily oral therapy called amitiza (lubiprostone), which acts by specifically activating cic-2 chloride channels in the gastrointestinal tract to increase secretions. amitiza is marketed by mallincrodt pharmaceuticals and takeda. there is also a subcutaneous treatment and an oral treatment known as relistor which is marketed by bausch health companies inc. (formerly, valeant pharmaceuticals international, inc., which previously acquired salix) under a license from progenics pharmaceuticals, inc. in 2014, relistor subjectaneous injection was approved by the fda for adult patients with chronic non-cancer pain. on july 22, 2016, relistor (methylnaltrexone bromide) oral tablets for the treatment of oci in adult patients with chronic non-cancer pain was approved by fda. other therapies used to treat oic and obd include over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners, such as docusate sodium, senna, and milk of 24 table of contents magnesia. these therapies do not address the underlying cause of constipation as a result of opioid use and are generally viewed as ineffective or only partially effective to treat the symptoms of oic and obd. there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations. potential competitors include merck, glaxosmithkline plc, ironwood pharmaceuticals, inc. in collaboration with actavis plc (acquired by teva pharmaceutical industries ltd.), purdue pharma l.p. in collaboration with shionogi &amp; co., ltd., mundipharma int. limited, theravance, inc., develco pharma, mallincrodt pharmaceuticals, and takeda. adynovate (previously referred to as bax 855, pegylated rfviii) on june 6, 2014, the fda approved biogen idec's eloctate tm [antihemophilic factor (recombinant), fc fusion protein] for the control and prevention of bleeding episodes, perioperative (surgical) management and routine prophylaxis in adults and children with hemophilia a. eloctate tm is intended to be an extended half-life factor viii therapy with prolonged circulation in the body with the potential to extend the interval between prophylactic infusions. prior to its 2014 approval, the fusion protein in eloctate tm was not used outside of the clinical trial setting for hemophilia a patients. on august 31, 2018, bayer healthcare received fda approval for jivi (antihemophilic factor (recombinant) pegylated-aucl), an extended half-life factor viii for hemophilia a treatment in patients 12 and older which became commercially available in the third quarter of 2018. in addition, on february 19, 2019, novo nordisk received fda approval for esperoct [antihemophilic factor (recombinant), glycopegylated-exei] a glycopegylated factor viii product with an extended half-life for use in adults and children with hemophilia a. the biogen, bayer, and novo nordisk products are competitors in the extended half-life factor viii market. research and development our total research and development expenditures can be disaggregated into the following significant types of expenses (in millions): year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 third party and direct materials costs $ 221.5 $ 206.9 $ 125.4 personnel, overhead and other costs 141.7 130.8 113.5 stock-based compensation and depreciation 71.4 61.8 29.6 research and development expense $ 434.6 $ 399.5 $ 268.5 manufacturing and supply we have a manufacturing facility located in huntsville, alabama that is capable of manufacturing our proprietary pegylation materials for active pharmaceutical ingredients (apis). the facility is also used to produce apis to support the early phases of clinical development of our proprietary drug candidates. the facility and associated equipment are designed and operated to be consistent with all applicable laws and regulations. as we do not maintain the capability to manufacture biologics nor finished drug products for our development programs, we primarily utilize contract manufacturers to manufacture biologics and finished drug product for us. we also utilize the services of contract manufacturers to manufacture apis and finished drug products required for later phases of clinical development and eventual commercialization under all applicable laws and regulations. we source drug starting materials for our manufacturing activities from one or more suppliers. for the drug starting materials necessary for our proprietary drug candidate development, we have agreements for the supply of such drug components with drug manufacturers or suppliers that we believe have sufficient capacity to meet our demands. however, from time to time, we source critical raw materials and services from one or a limited number of suppliers and there is a risk that if such supply or services were interrupted, it could materially harm our business. in addition, we typically order raw materials and services on a purchase order basis for early phase clinical development products and enter into long-term supply arrangements only for late stage products nearing regulatory approval for marketing authorization. environment as a manufacturer of peg reagents for the u.s. market, we are subject to inspections by the fda and the u.s. environmental protection agency for compliance with cgmp and other u.s. regulatory requirements, including u.s. federal, 25 table of contents state and local regulations regarding environmental protection and hazardous and controlled substance controls, among others. environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenditures to ensure we are in compliance with these laws and regulations. we would be subject to significant penalties for failure to comply with these laws and regulations. employees and consultants as of december 31, 2019 , we had 723 employees, of which 585 employees were engaged in research and development, manufacturing, commercial operations and quality activities and 138 employees in general administration and business development. of the 723 employees, 654 were located in the u.s. and 69 were located in india. we have a number of employees who hold advanced degrees, such as ph.d. none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have experienced no work stoppages. we believe that we maintain good relations with our employees. to complement our own expert professional staff, we utilize specialists in regulatory affairs, pharmacovigilance, process engineering, manufacturing, quality assurance and clinical development. these individuals include scientific advisors as well as independent consultants. available information our website address is http://www.nektar.com . the information in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available, free of charge, on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of our executive officers as of february 21, 2020: name age position howard w. robin 67 director, president and chief executive officer gil m. labrucherie, j.d. 48 chief operating officer and chief financial officer john northcott 42 senior vice president and chief commercial officer jillian b. thomsen 54 senior vice president, finance and chief accounting officer jonathan zalevsky, ph.d. 45 chief research and development officer howard w. robin has served as our president and chief executive officer since january 2007 and has served as a member of our board of directors since february 2007. mr. robin served as chief executive officer, president and a director of sirna therapeutics, inc., a biotechnology company, from july 2001 to november 2006 and from january 2001 to june 2001, served as their chief operating officer, president and as a director. from 1991 to 2001, mr. robin was corporate vice president and general manager at berlex laboratories, inc. (berlex), a pharmaceutical products company that is a subsidiary of schering, ag, and from 1987 to 1991 he served as vice president of finance and business development and chief financial officer of berlex. from 1984 to 1987, mr. robin was director of business planning and development at berlex. he was a senior associate with arthur andersen &amp; co. prior to joining berlex. mr. robin serves as a director of the biotechnology industry organization, the world's largest biotechnology industry trade organization, and also serves as a director of baybio, a non-profit trade association serving the northern california life sciences community. he received his b.s. in accounting and finance from fairleigh dickinson university in 1974. gil m. labrucherie has served as our senior vice president, chief financial officer since june 2016, and added the role of chief operating officer in october 2019. mr. labrucherie served as our vice president, corporate legal from october 2005 through april 2007 and served as our senior vice president, general counsel and secretary from april 2007 through june 2016 when he was promoted to senior vice president and chief financial officer. from october 2000 to september 2005, mr. labrucherie was vice president of corporate development at e2open. while at e2open, mr. labrucherie was responsible 26 table of contents for global corporate alliances and merger and acquisitions. prior to e2open, he was the senior director of corporate development at altavista company, an internet search company, where he was responsible for strategic partnerships and mergers and acquisitions. mr. labrucherie began his career as an associate in the corporate practice of the law firm of wilson sonsini goodrich &amp; rosati, p.c. mr. labrucherie received his j.d. from the berkeley law school and his b.a. from the university of california davis. john northcott has served as our senior vice president and chief commercial officer since december 2019. from 2015 to 2019, mr. northcott served as the chief commercial officer of pharmacyclics. from 2013 to 2015, mr. northcott was chief commercial officer at lexicon pharmaceuticals. he has held commercial roles from 2007 to 2013 in both u.s. and global marketing with genentech and the roche group, including the role of international business leader. prior to roche/genentech, mr. northcott held management positions in sales and marketing in a variety of therapeutic areas at other pharmaceutical companies including merck and pfizer. mr. northcott received a bachelor's degree in business administration from st. francis xavier university. jillian b. thomsen has served as our senior vice president, finance and chief accounting officer since february 2010. from march 2006 through march 2008, ms. thomsen served as our vice president finance and corporate controller and from april 2008 through january 2010 she served as our vice president finance and chief accounting officer. before joining nektar, ms. thomsen was vice president finance and deputy corporate controller of calpine corporation from september 2002 to february 2006. ms. thomsen began her career as a certified public accountant at arthur andersen llp, where she worked from 1990 to 2002, and specialized in audits of multinational consumer products, life sciences, manufacturing and energy companies. ms. thomsen holds a masters of accountancy from the university of denver and a b.a. in business economics from colorado college. jonathan zalevsky has served as our chief research &amp; development officer since october 2019. dr. zalevsky served as our senior vice president, biology and preclinical development from april 2017 through november 2017 and served as our senior vice president, research and chief science officer from november 2017 to october 2019. from july 2015 through april 2017, dr. zalevsky served as our vice president, biology and preclinical development. prior to joining nektar, dr. zalevsky was global vice president and head of the inflammation drug discovery unit at takeda pharmaceuticals. prior to working at takeda, dr. zalevsky held a number of research and development positions at xencor, inc. dr. zalevsky received his ph.d. in biochemistry from the tetrad program at the university of california, san francisco. he received dual bachelor degrees in biochemistry and molecular, cellular and developmental biology from the university of colorado at boulder. item 1a. risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. investors in nektar therapeutics should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business we are highly dependent on the success of bempegaldesleukin, our lead i-o candidate. we are executing a clinical development program for bempegaldesleukin and clinical and regulatory outcomes for bempegaldesleukin, if not successful, will significantly harm our business. our future success is highly dependent on our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize bempegaldesleukin. in general, most investigational drugs, including i-o drug candidates such as bempegaldesleukin, do not become approved drugs. accordingly, there is a very meaningful risk that bempegaldesleukin will not succeed in one or more clinical trials sufficient to support one or more regulatory approvals. to date, reported clinical outcomes from bempegaldesleukin have had a significant impact on our market valuation, financial position, and business 27 table of contents prospects and we expect this to continue in future periods. if one or more clinical studies of bempegaldesleukin are delayed (as a result of, for example, our collaboration partner causing a delay of the initiation of one or more clinical trials for reasons outside of our control) or not successful, it would materially harm our market valuation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. for example, under the bms collaboration agreement, we are entitled to up to $1.455 billion in development milestone payments that are based upon clinical and regulatory successes from the bempegaldesleukin development program. one or more failures in bempegaldesleukin studies could jeopardize such milestone payments, and any product sales or royalty revenue or commercial milestone payments that we would otherwise be entitled to receive could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. delays in clinical studies are common and have many causes, and any significant delay in clinical studies being conducted by us or our partners could result in delay in regulatory approvals and jeopardize the ability to proceed to commercialization. we or our partners may experience delays in clinical trials of drug candidates. we have ongoing trials evaluating bempegaldesleukin, including trials evaluating bempegaldesleukin as a potential combination treatment with bms's opdivo as well as other ongoing and planned combination trials. our partner lilly has initiated clinical phase 1b studies of nktr-358 for indications in systemic lupus erythematosus, psoriasis and atopic dermatitis. we also continue to enroll patients in a phase 1/2 study evaluating bempegaldesleukin in combination with nktr-262. in addition, we have initiated a phase 1 clinical study of nktr-255 in adults with relapsed or refractory non-hodgkin lymphoma or multiple myeloma. these and other clinical studies may not begin on time, enroll a sufficient number of patients or be completed on schedule, if at all. clinical trials for any of our product candidates could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: delays in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a clinical study; delays in reaching agreement with applicable regulatory authorities on a clinical study design; for product candidates (such as bempegaldesleukin and nktr-358) partnered with other companies, delays caused by our partner; imposition of a clinical hold by the fda or other health authorities, which may occur at any time including after any inspection of clinical trial operations or trial sites; suspension or termination of a clinical study by us, our partners, the fda or foreign regulatory authorities due to adverse side effects of a drug on subjects in the trial; delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; delays in having patients complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; clinical sites dropping out of a trial to the detriment of enrollment rates; delays in manufacturing and delivery of sufficient supply of clinical trial materials; changes in regulatory authorities policies or guidance applicable to our drug candidates; and delays caused by changing standards of care or new treatment options. if the initiation or completion of any of the planned clinical studies for our drug candidates is delayed for any of the above or other reasons, the regulatory approval process would be delayed and the ability to commercialize and commence sales of these drug candidates could be materially harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. clinical study delays could also shorten any commercial periods during which our products have patent protection and may allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, which could impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations. the outcomes from competitive i-o and combination therapy clinical trials, and the discovery and development of new potential oncology therapies, could have a material and adverse impact on the value of our i-o research and development pipeline. the research and development of i-o therapies is a very competitive global segment in the biopharmaceutical industry attracting billions of dollars of investment each year. our clinical trial plans for bempegaldesleukin, nktr-262, and nktr-255 face substantial competition from other i-o combination regimens already approved, and many more combination therapies that are either ahead of or in parallel development in patient populations where we are studying our drug candidates. as i-o combination therapies are relatively new approaches in cancer treatment and few have successfully completed late stage development, i-o drug development entails substantial risks and uncertainties that include rapidly changing standards of care, 28 table of contents patient enrollment competition, evolving regulatory frameworks to evaluate combination regimens, and varying risk-benefit profiles of competing therapies, any or all of which could have a material and adverse impact on the probability of success of i-o drug candidates. drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. we have a number of proprietary drug candidates and partnered drug candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive, difficult to design and implement and highly uncertain as to outcome. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, many years to conduct extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. the start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our and our partners' financial constraints. drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of preclinical and clinical development. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for drug candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care (including commercialization of a competing therapy in the same or similar indication for which our drug candidate is being studied) and other variables (such as commercial supply challenges). the risk of failure increases for our drug candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to bempegaldesleukin, nktr-358, nktr-262, nktr-255, and other drug candidates currently in discovery research or preclinical development. the failure of one or more of our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not elect or be able to take advantage of any expedited development or regulatory review and approval processes available to product candidates granted breakthrough therapy by the fda. we intend to evaluate and continue ongoing discussions with the fda on regulatory strategies that could enable us to take advantage of expedited development pathways for certain of our drug candidates, although we cannot be certain that our drug candidates will qualify for any expedited development pathways or that regulatory authorities will grant, or allow us to maintain, the relevant qualifying designations. breakthrough therapy designation is intended to expedite the development and review of drug candidates that are designed to treat serious or life-threatening diseases when preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. the designation of a drug candidate as a breakthrough therapy provides potential benefits that include more frequent meetings with fda to discuss the development plan for the drug candidate and ensure collection of appropriate data needed to support approval; more frequent written correspondence from fda about such things as the design of the proposed clinical trials and use of biomarkers; intensive guidance on an efficient drug development program, beginning as early as phase 1; organizational commitment involving senior managers; and eligibility for rolling review and priority review. although bempegaldesleukin in combination with opdivo received breakthrough therapy designation for the treatment of patients with previously untreated unresectable or metastatic melanoma, we may elect not to pursue breakthrough therapy designation for our other drug candidates, and the fda has broad discretion whether or not to grant these designations. accordingly, even if we believe a particular drug candidate is eligible for breakthrough therapy, we cannot be assured that the fda would decide to grant it. breakthrough therapy designation does not change the standards for drug approval, and there is no assurance that such designation will result in expedited review or approval or that the approved indication will not be narrower than the indication covered by the breakthrough therapy designation. thus, even though we have received breakthrough therapy designation, we may not experience a faster development process or review, and, upon any filing seeking regulatory approval, we may not obtain an approval from the fda. the risk of clinical failure for any drug candidate remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies have suffered significant unforeseen failures in clinical studies due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy or safety, even after achieving preclinical proof-of-concept or positive results from earlier clinical studies that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing regulatory authorities. clinical study outcomes remain very unpredictable and it is possible that one or more of our clinical studies could fail at any time due to efficacy, safety or other important clinical findings or regulatory requirements. the results from preclinical testing or early clinical trials of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in later phase clinical trials of the product candidate. we, the fda, an independent 29 table of contents institutional review board (irb), an independent ethics committee (iec), or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time for various reasons, including a belief that patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or adverse side effects. similarly, an irb or iec may suspend a clinical trial at a particular trial site. if one or more of our drug candidates fail in clinical studies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in sufficient quantities that meet applicable quality standards, it could delay clinical studies, result in reduced sales or constitute a breach of our contractual obligations, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient drug quantities meeting applicable quality standards required to support large clinical studies or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner, it could delay our or our collaboration partners' clinical studies or result in a breach of our contractual obligations, which could in turn reduce the potential commercial sales of our or our collaboration partners' products. as a result, we could incur substantial costs and damages and any product sales or royalty revenue that we would otherwise be entitled to receive could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. in most cases, we rely on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply drug product for our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners. the manufacturing of drugs involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstration of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process and analytical methods validations, and challenges in controlling for all of these variables. we have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract manufacturers required for drug supply to support our clinical studies and the clinical studies and products of our collaboration partners. failure by us or our contract manufacturers to supply api or drug products in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality requirements could result in supply shortages for our clinical studies or the clinical studies and commercial activities of our collaboration partners. such failures could significantly and materially delay clinical trials and regulatory submissions or result in reduced sales, any of which could significantly harm our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past, we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. there continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is validated and proven. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunities or contract liabilities to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations. any interruption in supply, diminution in quality of raw materials supplied to us or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing our costs. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to laws and other governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and drug products, and with laws and regulations governing manufacture and distribution of controlled substances, and are subject to inspections by the fda, the drug enforcement administration or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions administering such requirements. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers' adherence to such cgmp and other laws and governmental regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to 30 table of contents our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures, administrative detention, or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. regulatory inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. drug candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive review process for safety and efficacy by the fda and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. the time required for obtaining regulatory decisions is uncertain and difficult to predict. for example, although the fda granted a breakthrough therapy designation to bempegaldesleukin in combination with opdivo for the treatment of patients with previously untreated unresectable or metastatic melanoma, there is no guarantee regulatory approval will follow, if at all, for this or any indication of bempegaldesleukin on a timely basis. the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical studies, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. further, regulatory authorities have the discretion to analyze data using their own methodologies that may differ from those used by us or our partners, which could lead such authorities to arrive at different conclusions regarding the safety or efficacy of a drug candidate. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. for example, astrazeneca is conducting a post-marketing, observational epidemiological study comparing movantik to other treatments of opioid-induced constipation (oic) in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain and the results of this study could at some point in the future negatively impact the labeling, regulatory status, and commercial potential of movantik . even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. our and our partnered drugs that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our results of operations and financial condition depend significantly on the ability of our collaboration partners to successfully develop and market drugs and they may fail to do so. under our collaboration agreements with various pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies (other than the bms collaboration agreement), our collaboration partner is generally solely responsible for: designing and conducting large scale clinical studies; preparing and filing documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug candidate; and/ or marketing and selling the drugs when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of significant risks to our business, including risks that: we have very little control over the timing and level of resources that our collaboration partners dedicate to commercial marketing efforts such as the amount of investment in sales and marketing personnel, general marketing campaigns, direct-to-consumer advertising, product sampling, pricing agreements and rebate strategies with government and private payers, manufacturing and supply of drug product, and other marketing 31 table of contents and selling activities that need to be undertaken and well executed for a drug to have the potential to achieve commercial success; collaboration partners with commercial rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered drugs than they devote to their own drugs or other drugs that they have in-licensed; we have very little control over the timing and amount of resources our partners devote to development programs in one or more major markets; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future collaboration partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative impact on our business. if the approved drugs fail to achieve commercial success or the drugs in development fail to have positive late stage clinical outcomes sufficient to support regulatory approval in major markets, it could significantly impair our access to capital necessary to fund our research and development efforts for our proprietary drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital resources to advance our drug candidate pipeline, it would negatively impact the value of our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. if we do not receive substantial milestone or royalty payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaborations or other arrangements, or are unable to raise additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our current level of investment in research and development. as of december 31, 2019 , we had cash and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $1.6 billion and had debt of $250.0 million in principal of senior secured notes due in october 2020. while we believe that our cash position will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous unpredictable factors, including: the cost, timing and outcomes of clinical studies and regulatory reviews of our drug candidates important examples include bempegaldesleukin and nktr-358; the commercial launch and sales levels of products marketed by our collaboration partners for which we are entitled to royalties and sales milestone payments importantly, the level of success in marketing and selling movantik by astrazeneca in the u.s. and adynovate by baxalta (a wholly-owned subsidiary of takeda) globally, as well as moventig (the naloxegol brand name in the eu) by kirin in the eu; if and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties from our existing collaborations if the drug candidates subject to those collaborations achieve clinical, regulatory or commercial success; the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs; the success, progress, timing and costs of our efforts to implement new collaborations, licenses and other transactions that increase our current net cash, such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us, term loan or other debt arrangements, and the issuance of securities; the number of patients, enrollment criteria, primary and secondary endpoints, and the number of clinical studies required by the regulatory authorities in order to consider for approval our drug candidates and those of our collaboration partners; our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; and 32 table of contents disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements that negatively impact our receipt of milestone payments or royalties or require us to make significant payments arising from licenses, settlements, adverse judgments or ongoing royalties. a significant multi-year capital commitment is required to advance our drug candidates through the various stages of research and development in order to generate sufficient data to enable high value collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments or to successfully achieve regulatory approval. in the event we do not enter into any new collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments and we choose to continue our later stage research and development programs, we may need to pursue financing alternatives, including dilutive equity-based financings, such as an offering of convertible debt or common stock, which would dilute the percentage ownership of our current common stockholders and could significantly lower the market value of our common stock. if sufficient capital is not available to us or is not available on commercially reasonable terms, it could require us to delay or reduce one or more of our research and development programs. if we are unable to sufficiently advance our research and development programs, it could substantially impair the value of such programs and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict. if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipate, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, patient and physician preferences, drug scheduling status, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our product candidates following approval by regulatory authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market by asserting our patents. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a drug candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial potential of the drug candidate, the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such drug candidate, or if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and this would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also depend on our relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and the commercialization of product candidates. poor performance by these companies, or disputes with these companies, could negatively impact our revenue and financial condition. if government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of coverage and payment or reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government programs, including medicare and medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. however, eligibility for coverage does not necessarily signify that a drug candidate will be adequately reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers costs related to research, development, manufacture, sale, and distribution. third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit coverage or pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. for example, congress passed the affordable care act in 2010 which enacted a number of reforms to expand access to health insurance while also reducing or constraining the growth of healthcare spending, enhancing remedies against fraud and abuse, adding new transparency requirements for healthcare industries, and imposing new taxes on fees on healthcare industry participants, among other policy reforms. federal agencies, congress and state legislatures have continued to show interest in implementing cost containment programs to limit the growth of health care costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and other fundamental changes to the healthcare delivery system. in addition, in recent years, congress has enacted various laws seeking to reduce the federal debt level and contain healthcare expenditures, and the medicare and other healthcare programs are frequently identified as potential targets for spending cuts. new government legislation or regulations related to pricing or other fundamental changes to the healthcare delivery system as well as a government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage or reimbursement of, our products hold the potential to severely limit market opportunities of such products. 33 table of contents if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development capital requirements. the timing of new collaboration partnerships is difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the outcomes from our clinical studies, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. if we are unable to find suitable partners or negotiate collaboration arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future drug candidates or the licensing of our intellectual property, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, from which we receive upfront fees, contract research payments, milestone and other contingent payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties and product sales. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch or the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. our past revenue generated from collaboration agreements is not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. if any of our existing or future collaboration partners fails to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture or ultimately commercialize any product candidate under our collaboration agreement, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, substantially all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of our partner's performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered drug candidate development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the collaboration; royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent life, generic competitors, bundled pricing and other factors; and indemnity obligations for intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. we are a party to numerous significant collaboration agreements and other strategic transaction agreements (e.g., financings and asset divestitures) that contain complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations. if we are found to have materially breached such agreements, it could subject us to substantial liabilities and harm our financial condition. 34 table of contents from time to time, we are involved in litigation matters involving the interpretation and application of complex terms and conditions of our agreements. one or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we, or our partners through our collaborations, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. to the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and over which we have little or no control important examples of this risk include movantik partnered with astrazeneca and adynovate (previously referred to as bax 855) partnered with baxalta (a wholly-owned subsidiary of takeda). in the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build, either internally or through third-party contracts, a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment, and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. if we are unable to create robust sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates successfully. we currently have no sales or distribution capabilities. to commercialize any of our drugs that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must develop robust internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, and manage inventory, supply, labeling, storage, record keeping, and advertising and promotion capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming, or enter into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly or through partnerships include: our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or successfully educate adequate numbers of physicians about the potential benefits associated with the use of, and to subsequently prescribe, our products; the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. we rely heavily on these parties for the successful execution of our clinical trials. though we are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trials, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or the failure of third parties to properly conduct our clinical trials could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. 35 table of contents for the year ended december 31, 2019 , we reported net loss of $440.7 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone and other contingent payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop drugs utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies; effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of the clinical studies for bempegaldesleukin, nktr-358, nktr-262, and nktr-255; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include biogen inc., horizon pharma, dr. reddy's laboratories ltd., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing polymer conjugation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are many competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for bempegaldesleukin, there are numerous companies engaged in developing immunotherapies to be used alone, or in combination, to treat a wide range of oncology indications targeting both solid and liquid tumors. in particular, we expect to compete with therapies with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, or tils, chimeric antigen receptor-expressing t cells, or car-t, cytokine-based therapies, and checkpoint inhibitors. potential competitors in the til and car-t space include gilead sciences, inc. (through its acquisition of kite pharma, inc.)/nci, apeiron biologics, philogen s.p.a., brooklyn immunotherapeutics llc, anaveon ag, adaptimmune llc, and novartis ag, alkermes plc, altor bioscience, roche, sanofi sa (through its acquisition of synthorx, inc.), and eli lilly &amp; co. (through its acquisition of armo biosciences) in the cytokine-based therapies space, and glaxosmithkline plc (through its acquisition of tesaro, inc.), macrogenics, inc., merck, bristol-myers squibb company, and roche in the checkpoint inhibitor space. for nktr-358, there are a number of competitors in various stages of clinical development that are working on programs which are designed to correct the underlying immune system imbalance in the body due to autoimmune disease. in particular, we expect to compete with therapies that could be cytokine-based therapies (symbiotix, llc, janssen, astrazeneca, and tizona therapeutics), regulatory t cell therapies (targazyme, inc., caladrius biosciences, inc., and tract therapeutics, inc.), or il-2-based-therapies (amgen inc., celgene corporation, and iltoo pharma). for movantik , there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including relistor (methylnaltrexone bromide), oral therapy amitiza (lubiprostone), and oral and rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. for adynovate , there is substantial competition from sanofi's fc fusion protein eloctate for hemophilia a treatment, jivi (antihemophilic factor (recombinant) pegylated-aucl), an extended half-life factor viii for hemophilia a treatment, approved in the u.s. in august 2018, and marketed by bayer healthcare, and, more recently, an extended half-life product from novo nordisk. in addition, technologies other than those based on fc fusion and polymer conjugation approaches (such as gene therapy approaches being developed by biomarin pharmaceutical inc. and others) are being pursued to treat patients with hemophilia a. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. 36 table of contents many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. we may not be able to manage our growth effectively, which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. the ability to manage and operate our business as we execute our development and growth strategy will require effective planning. significant rapid growth could strain our management and internal resources, and other problems may arise that could adversely affect our financial performance. we expect that our efforts to grow will place a significant strain on personnel, management systems, infrastructure and other resources. our ability to effectively manage future growth will also require us to successfully attract, train, motivate, retain and manage new employees and continue to update and improve our operational, financial and management controls and procedures. if we do not manage our growth effectively, our operations and financial performance could be adversely affected. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, research, regulatory and finance, and may need to attract and retain commercial, marketing and distribution experts and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock awards they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with 37 table of contents us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. the price of our common stock has, and may continue to fluctuate significantly, which could result in substantial losses for investors and securities class action and shareholder derivative litigation. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2019 , based on closing prices on the nasdaq global select market, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $15.87 to $46.35 per share. in response to volatility in the price of our common stock in the past, plaintiffs' securities litigation firms have sought information from us and/or shareholders as part of their investigation into potential securities violations and breaches of duties (among other corporate misconduct allegations). following their investigations, plaintiffs' securities litigation firms have often initiated legal action, including the filing of class action lawsuits, derivative lawsuits, and other forms of redress. we expect our stock price to remain volatile and we continue to expect the initiation of legal actions by plaintiffs' securities litigation firms following share price fluctuations. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, including the risks described in this section titled risk factors and the following: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch in particular, data from clinical studies of bempegaldesleukin has had a significant impact on our stock price; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to drug candidates and approved drugs in which we have a substantial economic interest; announcements regarding terminations or disputes under our collaboration agreements; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; our financing needs and activities; and general market conditions. at times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments. the stock prices of biotechnology companies and securities markets generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; 38 table of contents establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then-current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefit plan, which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. the indenture governing our 7.75% senior secured notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. on october 5, 2015, we issued $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior secured notes due october 2020. the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to take various actions, including, among other things: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified capital stock or cause certain of our subsidiaries to issue preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions, redeem equity interests or subordinated indebtedness or make certain types of investments; create or incur liens; transfer, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets and issue or sell equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries; incur restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or other distributions to the company or to make intercompany loans, advances or asset transfers; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in any business other than businesses which are the same, similar, ancillary or reasonably related to our business as of the date of the indenture; and consummate a merger, consolidation, reorganization or business combination, sell, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or other change of control transaction. this indenture also requires us to maintain a minimum cash and investments in marketable securities balance of $60.0 million. we have certain reporting obligations under the indenture regarding cash position and royalty revenue. the indenture specifies a number of events of default, some of which are subject to applicable grace or cure periods, including, among other things, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, non-payment of material judgments, loss of any material business license, criminal indictment of the company, and certain civil forfeiture proceedings involving material assets of the company. our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by many factors, including events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those requirements. our failure to comply with our obligations could result in an event of default under our other indebtedness and the acceleration of our other indebtedness, in whole or in part, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the senior secured notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. preliminary and interim data from our clinical studies that we announce or publish from time to time are subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the final data and may change as more patient data become available. from time to time, we publish preliminary or interim data from our clinical studies. preliminary data remain subject to audit confirmation and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. interim data are also subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as patient enrollment continues and more patient data become available. as a result, preliminary and interim data should 39 table of contents be viewed with caution until the final data are available. material adverse changes in the final data could significantly harm our business prospects. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our drug candidates on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, methods of preparation and manufacturing, and methods of use and administration. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent rights will be considered relevant to our or our collaboration partners' technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties; however, the sufficiency of the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain in view of the long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology to avoid a need to secure a license. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. if a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be prevented from developing and commercializing the drug, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own more than 290 u.s. and 1000 foreign patents and have a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be held valid and enforceable in a court of law. even for patents that are held valid and enforceable, the legal process associated with obtaining such a judgment is time consuming and costly. additionally, issued patents can be subject to opposition, inter partes review or other proceedings that can result in the revocation of the patent or maintenance of the patent in amended form (and potentially in a form that renders the patent without commercially relevant and/or broad coverage). further, our competitors may be able to circumvent and otherwise design around our patents. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire prior to the commercialization of the drug. moreover, even if a patent encompassing a drug has not expired prior to the drugs commercialization, the patent may only provide a short period of protection following the commercialization of products. in addition, our patents may be subject to post grant or inter partes review before the u.s. patent and trademark office (or equivalent proceedings in other jurisdictions), which could result in a loss of the patent and/or substantial cost to us. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that the patent applications for which we apply will actually issue as patents, or do so with commercially relevant and/or broad coverage. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. the scope of our claim coverage can be critical to our ability to enter into licensing transactions with third parties and our right to receive royalties from our collaboration partnerships. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. in addition, there is no guarantee that we will be the first to file a patent application directed to an invention. an adverse outcome in any judicial proceeding involving intellectual property, including patents, could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. in those instances where we seek an intellectual property license from another, we may not be able to obtain the license on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all, thereby raising concerns on our ability to freely commercialize our technologies or products. we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are 40 table of contents independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage (or if we cannot secure product liability insurance), we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. if we or current or future collaborators or service providers fail to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties. although we do not currently have any products on the market, once we begin commercializing our drug candidates, we will be subject to additional healthcare statutory and regulatory requirements and enforcement by the federal and state governments of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payers play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any drug candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. our future arrangements with third-party payers and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our therapeutic candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering, or paying remuneration (a term interpreted broadly to include anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, and credits), directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order, or recommendation of, an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the medicare and medicaid programs; federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or making a false statement or record material to payment of a false claim or avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money owed to the federal government; provisions of the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa), which created new federal criminal statutes, referred to as the hipaa all-payer fraud prohibition, that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters; federal transparency laws, including the federal physician payment sunshine act, which require manufacturers of certain drugs and biologics to track and disclose payments and other transfers of value they make to u.s. physicians (currently defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals as well as physician ownership and investment interests in the manufacturer, and that such information is subsequently made publicly available in a searchable format on a cms website, effective january 1, 2022, these reporting obligations will extend to include transfers of value made to certain non-physician assistants and nurse practioners; provisions of hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, state transparency reporting and compliance laws; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and which may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. ensuring that our future business arrangements with third-parties comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could involve substantial costs. if our operations are found to be in violation of any such requirements, we may be 41 table of contents subject to penalties, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, or exclusion from participation in government contracting, healthcare reimbursement or other government programs, including medicare and medicaid, any of which could adversely affect financial results. although effective compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, these risks cannot be entirely eliminated. any action against us for an alleged or suspected violation could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and could divert our management's attention from the operation of our business, even if our defense is successful. in addition, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be costly to us in terms of money, time and resources. we are involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our obligations to them. a third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology platform or drug candidates or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our collaboration partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and liability if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain drugs or drug candidates in the u.s. and abroad. costs associated with litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are involved in legal proceedings where we or other third parties are enforcing or seeking intellectual property rights, invalidating or limiting patent rights that have already been allowed or issued, or otherwise asserting proprietary rights through one or more potential legal remedies. for example, we are currently involved in german litigation proceedings whereby we and bayer healthcare llc are seeking at least co-ownership rights in certain of each other's patent filings related to pegylated factor viii products. we believe that bayer's claims to an ownership interest in these is without merit and we are vigorously defending our exclusive ownership rights to this intellectual property. these german litigation proceedings are currently stayed pending the outcome of ongoing mediation efforts. in the u.s., bayer filed a complaint against baxalta and nektar alleging the adynovate product infringes a bayer patent. although the u.s. court dismissed all of bayer's claims against nektar and nektar was removed as a defendant, a jury found the bayer patent was valid and infringed, and awarded bayer damages, the responsibility of which are borne fully by baxalta. this damages award does not impact our royalties from sales of adynovate under our collaboration with baxalta and baxalta is currently appealing the decision. in other u.s. proceedings, nektar and baxalta filed complaints against bayer healthcare alleging bayer's jivi product infringes several nektar patents. a jury trial in this proceeding is scheduled to being in the summer of 2020. in addition, in response to notices astrazeneca and we received from the generic companies, apotex (apotex inc. and apotex corp.), msn laboratories pvt. ltd., and aurobindo pharma usa inc. alerting us that they had filed abbreviated new drug applications (andas) with the fda to market a generic version of movantik (paragraph iv certifications), astrazeneca and we together filed patent infringement suits against each of these generic companies. in these paragraph iv certifications, all three generic companies only alleged one patent, u.s. patent no. 9,012,469, is invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of their respective generic products. at this time, none of the other five orange book listed patents associated with movantik are being challenged by these generics companies. we are also regularly involved in opposition proceedings at the european patent office and in inter partes review proceedings at the u.s. patent and trademark office where third parties seek to invalidate or limit the scope of our allowed patent applications or issued patents covering (among other things) our drugs and platform technologies. we are involved in legal proceedings other than those related to intellectual property. for example, on october 30, 2018, we and certain of our executives were named in a putative securities class action complaint filed in the u.s. district court for the northern district of california, which complaint was subsequently amended on may 15, 2019. also, on february 13, 2019, and february 18, 2019, shareholder derivative complaints were filed in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware naming the ceo, cfo and certain members of nektar's board. these class action and shareholder derivative actions assert, among other things, that for a period beginning at least from november 11, 2017 through october 2, 2018, our stock was inflated due to alleged misrepresentations about the efficacy and safety of bempegaldesleukin. in addition, on august 19, 2019, we and certain of our executives were named in a putative securities class action complaint filed in the u.s. district court for the northern district of california, which complaint was subsequently amended on january 24, 2020. also, on february 11, 2020, and on february 20, 2020, shareholder derivative complaints were filed in the u.s. district court for the northern district of california naming the ceo, cfo and certain members of nektar's board. these class action and shareholder 42 table of contents derivative actions assert, among other things, that for a period between february 15, 2019 and august 8, 2019, inclusive, our stock was inflated due to an alleged failure to disclose a reduction in the planned number of bempegaldesleukin clinical trials and a bempegaldesleukin manufacturing issue. related to intellectual property, we are involved intellectual propertyon october 30, 2018, we and certain of our executives were named in a putative securities class action complaint filed in the u.s. district court for the northern district of california, which complaint was subsequently amended on may 15, 2019. also, on february 13, 2019, and february 18, 2019, shareholder derivative complaints were filed in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware naming the ceo, cfo and certain members of nektar's board. these class action and shareholder derivative actions assert, among other things, that for a period beginning at least from november 11, 2017 through october 2, 2018, our stock was inflated due to alleged misrepresentations about the efficacy and safety of bempegaldesleukin. in addition, on august 19, 2019, we and certain of our executives were named in a putative securities class action complaint filed in the u.s. district court for the northern district of california, which complaint was subsequently amended on january 24, 2020. also, on february 11, 2020, and on february 20, 2020, shareholder derivative complaints were filed in the u.s. district court for the northern district of california naming the ceo, cfo and certain members of nektar's board. these class action and shareholder derivative actions assert, among other things, that for a period between february 15, 2019 and august 8, 2019, inclusive, our stock was inflated due to an alleged failure to disclose a reduction in the planned number of bempegaldesleukin clinical trials and a bempegaldesleukin manufacturing issue. the cost to us in initiating or defending any litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation would divert our management's attention. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could delay our research and development efforts or result in financial implications either in terms of seeking license arrangements or payment of damages or royalties. there is no guarantee that our insurance coverage for damages resulting from a litigation or the settlement thereof (including the putative securities class action lawsuits and shareholder derivative lawsuits) is sufficient, thereby resulting in substantial financial risk to the company. our internal computer systems, or those of our partners, vendors, cros, cmos or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our product development programs or the theft of our confidential information or patient confidential information. despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our partners, vendors, contract research organizations (cros), contract manufacturing organizations (cmos) and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, business email compromise, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. such events could cause interruptions of our operations. for instance, the loss of preclinical data or data from any future clinical trial involving our product candidates could result in delays in our development and regulatory filing efforts and significantly increase our costs. to the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information of our company or clinical patients, we could suffer or be subject to reputational harm, monetary fines (such as those imposed by european regulation 2016/679, known as the general data protection regulation, or gdpr and, the california consumer privacy act, or ccpa ), civil suits, civil penalties or criminal sanctions and requirements to disclose the breach, and other forms of liability, and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. in addition, we continue to be subject to new and evolving data protection laws and regulations from a variety of jurisdictions, and there is a risk that our systems and processes for managing and protecting data may be found to be inadequate, which could expose us to fines and litigation. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union (eu) may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, access to patient markets, and regulatory certainty, which could adversely affect our operations. on january 31, 2020, the united kingdom withdrew from the eu (brexit), thereby triggering a transition period that is set to end on december 31, 2020, during which the united kingdom and the eu will negotiate their future relationship. many effects of brexit depend on how closely the uk will be tied to the eu, and whether the transition period ends without terms being agreed. there is currently considerable uncertainty on regulatory processes in europe and the european economic area. the lack of clarity about which eu rules and regulations the united kingdom would replace or replicate, such as rules and regulations relating to trade (including the importation and exportation of pharmaceuticals), clinical research, and intellectual property, increases the risk that our clinical trials being carried out in united kingdom are delayed or disrupted. further, depending on which rules and regulations the united kingdom ultimately adopts, our business could be negatively affected. global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. 43 table of contents our operations and performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by global economic conditions. as a result of global economic conditions, some third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. job losses or other economic hardships may also affect patients' ability to afford healthcare as a result of increased co-pay or deductible obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or for other reasons. we believe such conditions have led and could continue to lead to reduced demand for our and our collaboration partners' drug products, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. further, with rising international trade tensions, our business may be adversely affected following new or increased tariffs that result in the increased global clinical trial costs as a result of international transportation of clinical drug supplies, as well as the costs of materials and products imported into the u.s. tariffs, trade restrictions or sanctions imposed by the u.s. or other countries could increase the prices of our and our collaboration partners' drug products, affect our and our collaboration partners' ability to commercialize such drug products, or create adverse tax consequences in the u.s. or other countries. as a result, changes in international trade policy, changes in trade agreements and the imposition of tariffs or sanctions by the u.s. or other countries could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our business could be negatively impacted by corporate citizenship and sustainability matters. there is an increased focus from certain investors, employees, and other stakeholders concerning corporate citizenship and sustainability matters, which include environmental concerns and social investments. we could fail to meet, or be perceived to fail to meet, the expectations of these certain investors, employees and other stakeholders concerning corporate citizenship and sustainability matters, thereby resulting in a negative impact to our business. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a research-based biopharmaceutical company with significant research and development and manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. if earthquakes or other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and own and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaboration partners and important vendors and suppliers to us or our collaboration partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes and pandemics any of which could harm our business (including, for example, by disrupting supply chains important to the success of our business), results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. 44 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in securities with maturities of two years or less and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $4.3 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2019. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2019. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $6.7 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2018. as of december 31, 2019, we held $1.5 billion of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of seven months. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. based on our available cash and our expected operating cash requirements, we currently do not intend to sell these securities prior to maturity and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities before we recover the amortized cost basis. accordingly, we believe there are no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities and have not recorded any provisions for impairment. foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we have contracts with contract manufacturing organizations in europe, transacted in the british pound sterling or euros. additionally, a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities outside the united states, with transactions in the indian rupee. finally, although our payments from our collaboration partners for our royalty revenues are in u.s. dollars, a portion of the payment is based on net sales in foreign currency translated into u.s. dollars for such period. accordingly, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk for these transactions. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. we do not believe that inflation has had a material adverse impact on our revenues or operations in any of the past three years. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 27 risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. risks related to our business drug development is an inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. we have a number of proprietary product candidates and partnered product candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and highly uncertain processes. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to complete clinical trials. drug development is an uncertain scientific and 27 table of contents medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of clinical development even after early preclinical or mid-stage clinical results suggest that the drug candidate has potential as a new therapy that may benefit patients and that health authority approval would be anticipated. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. we or our partners have a number of important product candidates in mid- to late-stage development, such as bayer amikacin inhale, nktr-118 (oral pegylated naloxol) and nktr-119, which we partnered with astrazeneca, and nktr-102 (topoisomerase i inhibitor-polymer conjugate). we also have an ongoing phase 1 clinical trial for nktr-105 (pegylated docetaxel) for patients with refractory solid tumors. any one of these trials could fail at any time, as clinical development of drug candidates presents numerous unpredictable and significant risks and is very uncertain at all times prior to regulatory approval by one or more health authorities in major markets. even with success in preclinical testing and clinical trials, the risk of clinical failure remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant unforeseen setbacks in later stage clinical trials (i.e., phase 2 or phase 3 trials) due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy results and adverse medical events, even after achieving positive results in earlier trials that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing regulatory agencies. although we announced positive preliminary phase 2 clinical results for nktr-118 (oral pegylated naloxol) in 2009, there are still substantial risks and uncertainties associated with the future commencement and outcome of a phase 3 clinical trial and the regulatory review process even following our partnership with astrazeneca. while nktr-102 (topoisomerase i inhibitor-polymer conjugate) continues in phase 2 clinical development for multiple cancer indications, it is possible this product candidate could fail in one or all of the cancer indications in which it is currently being studied due to efficacy, safety or other commercial or regulatory factors. in 2010 and in january 2011, we announced preliminary positive results from our phase 2 trials for nktr-102 in ovarian and breast cancer. these results were based on preliminary data only, and such results could change based on final audit and verification procedures. in addition, the preliminary results from the nktr-102 clinical studies for ovarian and breast cancer are not necessarily indicative or predictive of the future results from the completed ovarian or breast cancer trials, anticipated phase 3 trials in these indications or clinical trials in the other cancer indications for which we are studying nktr-102. there remains a significant uncertainty as to the success or failure of nktr-102 and whether this drug candidate will eventually receive regulatory approval or be a commercial success even if approved by one or more health authorities in any of the cancer indications for which it is being studied. the risk of failure is increased for our product candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to small molecules, including nktr-118, nktr-119, nktr-102, nktr-105 and other drug candidates currently in the discovery research or preclinical development phases. the results from the expanded phase 2 clinical trial for nktr-102 in women with platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer are unlikely to result in a review or an approval of an nda by the fda, and the future results from this trial are difficult to predict. in 2010, we expanded the nktr-102 phase 2 study by 50 patients in women with platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer with the potential for us to consider an early nda submission after we evaluate these expanded study results. on march 1, 2011, we announced that we intended to further expand this phase 2 study by up to an additional 60 patients. the fda almost always requires a sponsor to conduct phase 3 clinical trials prior to consideration and approval of an nda, and, as a result, review or approval of an nda by the fda based on the expanded phase 2 study prior to completion of successful phase 3 clinical studies, if such nda is submitted, would be unusual and is highly unlikely. in february 2011, the fda held a public meeting with the oncology drug products advisory committee and certain representatives from pharmaceutical companies to examine the outcomes, requirements, and prerequisites for accelerated approval of oncology drugs. the fda requirements for accelerated approval are very stringent and also remain very uncertain and difficult to predict. further, this expansion of our phase 2 study will necessarily change the final efficacy (e.g., overall response rates, progression-free survival, overall survival) and safety (i.e., frequency and severity of serious adverse events) results, and, accordingly, the final results in this study remain subject to substantial change and could be materially and 28 table of contents adversely different from previously announced results. if the clinical studies for nktr-102 in women with platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer are not successful, it could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our technology on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, medical devices and equipment and methods for preparation, packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical compositions. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaborative partners technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties, however the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. if a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be significantly harmed and we may be prevented from developing and selling the product. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own greater than 100 u.s. and 380 foreign patents and a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be valid and enforceable or that patents for which we apply will issue with broad coverage, if at all. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued and, as a consequence, our patent applications may result in patents with narrow coverage that may not prevent competition from similar products or generics. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. as part of the patent application process, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. further, an issued patent may undergo further proceedings to limit its scope so as not to provide meaningful protection and any claims that have issued, or that eventually issue, may be circumvented or otherwise invalidated. any attempt to enforce our patents or patent application rights could be time consuming and costly. an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following commercialization of related products. there are many laws, regulations and judicial decisions that dictate and otherwise influence the manner in which patent applications are filed and prosecuted and in which patents are granted and enforced. changes to these laws, regulations and judicial decisions are subject to influences outside of our control and may negatively affect our business, including our ability to obtain meaningful patent coverage or enforcement rights to any of our issued patents. new laws, regulations and judicial decisions may be retroactive in effect, potentially reducing or eliminating our ability to implement our patent-related strategies. changes to laws, regulations and judicial decisions that affect our business are often difficult or impossible to foresee, which limits our ability to adequately adapt our patent strategies to these changes. 29 table of contents if we or our partners are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in quantities and at costs that are commercially feasible, we may fail to meet our contractual obligations or our proprietary and partnered product candidates may experience clinical delays or constrained commercial supply which could significantly harm our business. if we are not able to scale-up manufacturing to meet the drug quantities required to support large clinical trials or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, we risk delaying our clinical trials or those of our partners and may breach contractual obligations and incur associated damages and costs, and reduce or even eliminate associated revenues. in some cases, we may subcontract manufacturing or other services. pharmaceutical manufacturing involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstration of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process validation, and challenges in controlling for all of these factors during manufacturing scale-up for large clinical trials and commercial manufacturing and supply. in addition, we have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract manufacturers required for scale-up to clinical or commercial quantities. failure to manufacture products in quantities or at costs that are commercially feasible could cause us not to meet our supply requirements, contractual obligations or other requirements for our proprietary product candidates and, as a result, would significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. for instance, we entered a service agreement with novartis pursuant to which we subcontract to novartis certain important services to be performed in relation to our partnered program for amikacin inhale with bayer healthcare llc. if our subcontractors do not dedicate adequate resources to our programs, we risk breach of our obligations to our partners. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. further, our drug and device combination products, such as amikacin inhale and the cipro inhale program, require significant device design, formulation development work and manufacturing scale-up activities. further, we have experienced significant delays in starting the phase 3 clinical development program for amikacin inhale as we seek to finalize the device design with a demonstrated capability to be manufactured at commercial scale. this work is ongoing and there remains significant risk in finalizing the device until those activities are completed. drug/device combination products are particularly complex, expensive and time-consuming to develop due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient/doctor use, maintenance of clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. there continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is validated and proven. we will need to restructure our convertible notes or raise substantial additional capital to repay the notes and fund operations, and we may be unable to restructure the notes or raise such capital when needed and on acceptable terms. we have $215.0 million in outstanding convertible subordinated notes due september 2012. we do not have sufficient resources to fund the development of the drug candidates in our current research and development pipeline, complete late stage clinical development of nktr-102 and repay these convertible notes. we have no material credit facility or other material committed sources of capital. we expect the phase 3 clinical trials of nktr-102 to require particularly significant resources because we anticipate bearing a majority or all of the development costs for that drug candidate. prior to the maturity of the notes, we plan to explore a number of alternatives to provide for the repayment of the notes, including restructuring the notes. despite these efforts, we may be unable to find a commercially acceptable alternative or any alternative to repaying the notes by september 2012. our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs, including our planned further clinical development of nktr-102; 30 table of contents patient enrollment in our current and future clinical studies, including in particular our expected phase 3 clinical development plans for nktr-102; whether and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties, particularly from the product candidates that are subject to our collaboration agreements with astrazeneca for nktr-118 and bayer for amikacin inhale; the success, progress, timing and costs of our business development efforts to implement new business collaborations, licenses and other strategic transactions; the cost, timing and outcomes of regulatory reviews of our product candidates (e.g., nktr-102) and those of our collaboration partners (e.g., nktr-118, amikacin inhale); our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements; the availability and scope of coverage from government and private insurance payment or reimbursement for our drug candidates partnered with collaboration partners and any future drug candidates that may receive regulatory approval in the future; and the size, design (i.e., primary and secondary endpoints) and number of clinical studies required by the government health authorities in order to consider for approval our product candidates and those of our collaboration partners. although we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in marketable securities of $315.9 million as of december 31, 2010 and the approximately $219.8 million in net proceeds received on january 24, 2011 from a public offering of our common stock will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, we will likely need to restructure our notes or obtain additional funds through one or more financing or collaboration partnership transactions. if adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms when we need them, we may need to delay or reduce one or more of our phase 3 clinical trials of nktr-102 or otherwise make changes to our operations to cut costs. if we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our products successfully. we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. to commercialize any of our products that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or enter into collaboration arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly or indirectly with our partners include: our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to use or prescribe our products; the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. 31 table of contents if we, or our partners through our collaboration, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. to the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control. in the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development expenses and develop and commercialize our product candidates. in september 2009, we entered into a license agreement with astrazeneca for nktr-118 and nktr-119 which included an upfront payment of $125.0 million. astrazeneca represented 68% of our total revenue during the year ended december 31, 2010. the timing of new collaboration partnerships is difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. if we are unable to find suitable partners or to negotiate collaborative arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future product candidates or the licensing of our technology, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict and if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement, patient and physician preferences, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our successful product candidates following approval by health authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market in one or more geographies by the assertion of one or more patents covering such approved drug. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a product candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such product candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and would negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is derived from our collaboration agreements with partners, under which we may receive contract research payments, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties or manufacturing revenue. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from the nature of significant milestone payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical, regulatory or sales events which result in single milestone payments and the timing and success of the commercial launch of new drugs by our collaboration partners. the 32 table of contents amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our partner achieve clinical and sales milestones, whether the partnership is exclusive or whether we can seek other partners, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. if our partners, on which we depend to obtain regulatory approvals for and to commercialize our partnered products, are not successful, or if such collaborations fail, the development or commercialization of our partnered products may be delayed or unsuccessful. when we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a product candidate with a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company, the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company is generally expected to: design and conduct large scale clinical studies; prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given product candidate; and/or market and sell our products when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of risks to our business, including risks that: we may be unable to control whether, and the extent to which, our partners devote sufficient resources to the development programs or commercial marketing and sales efforts; disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; contracts with our partners may fail to provide us with significant protection, or to be effectively enforced, in the event one of our partners fails to perform; partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered products than they do to products of their own development or products in-licensed from other third parties; the timing and level of resources that our partners dedicate to the development program will affect the timing and amount of revenue we receive; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative or positive impact on our business. we have entered into collaborations in the past that have been subsequently terminated, such as our collaboration with pfizer for the development and commercialization of inhaled insulin that was terminated by pfizer in november 2007. if other collaborations are suspended or terminated, our ability to commercialize certain other proposed product candidates could also be negatively 33 table of contents impacted. if our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of product candidates could be delayed or cancelled, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. product candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive fda mandated or equivalent foreign authorities review process for safety and efficacy. this process generally takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. the time required for completing testing and obtaining approvals is uncertain, and the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional clinical development or other testing at any phase of development, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. our partnered products that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered product development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the partnership; royalties on end product sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, patent life, generic competitors, and other factors; and indemnity obligations for third-party intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. on september 20, 2009, we entered into a worldwide exclusive license agreement with astrazeneca for the further development and commercialization of nktr-118 and nktr-119. in addition, we have also entered into complex commercial agreements with novartis in connection with the sale of certain assets related to our 34 table of contents pulmonary business, associated technology and intellectual property to novartis (the novartis pulmonary asset sale), which was completed on december 31, 2008. our agreements with astrazeneca and novartis contain complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations that could result in substantial future liability and harm our financial condition if we breach any of our agreements with astrazeneca or novartis or any third party agreements impacted by these complex transactions. as part of the novartis pulmonary asset sale, we entered an exclusive license agreement with novartis pharma pursuant to which novartis pharma grants back to us an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free and worldwide license under certain specific patent rights and other related intellectual property rights necessary for us to satisfy certain continuing contractual obligations to third parties, including in connection with development, manufacture, sale and commercialization activities related to our partnered program for amikacin inhale with bayer healthcare llc. we also entered into a service agreement pursuant to which we have subcontracted to novartis certain services to be performed related to our partner program for amikacin inhale. from time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. one or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunity or contract liability to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations, and any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing operating loss to the extent we cannot pass on increased costs to a manufacturing customer. we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. for the year ended december 31, 2010, we reported a net loss of $37.9 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. 35 table of contents other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop products utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies; effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of nktr-102 since we expect to bear a majority or all of such costs; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. if we do not generate sufficient cash through restructuring our convertible notes or raising additional capital, we may be unable to meet our substantial debt obligations. as of december 31, 2010, we had cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $315.9 million and approximately $240.4 million of indebtedness, including approximately $215.0 million in convertible subordinated notes due september 2012, $19.0 million in capital lease obligations, and $6.4 million of other liabilities. on january 24, 2011, we completed a public offering of our common stock with proceeds of approximately $220.4 million. additionally, we incurred approximately $0.6 million in legal and accounting fees, filing fees, and other offering expenses. our substantial indebtedness has and will continue to impact us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing; constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate; constraining our stock price; and constraining our ability to invest in our proprietary product development programs. currently, we are not generating positive cash flow. if we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, substantial liquidity problems could result. in relation to our convertible notes, since the market price of our common stock is significantly below the conversion price, the holders of our outstanding convertible notes are unlikely to convert the notes to common stock in accordance with the existing terms of the notes. if we do not generate sufficient cash from operations to repay principal or interest on our remaining convertible notes, or satisfy any of our other debt obligations, when due, we may have to raise additional funds from the issuance of equity or debt securities or entry into collaboration partnerships or otherwise restructure our obligations. any such financing or restructuring may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. if government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of payment or reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting 36 table of contents the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. a government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. though we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials and are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or our reliance on results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers adherence to such cgmp regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. the results of these inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our pegylation and polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include the dow chemical company, enzon pharmaceuticals, inc., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and 37 table of contents pharmaceutical companies may also be developing pegylation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are several competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for amikacin inhale, the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. for nktr-118 (oral pegylated naloxol), there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including subcutaneous relistor (methylnaltrexone bromide) and oral and rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including adolor corporation, glaxosmithkline plc, progenics pharmaceuticals, inc. in collaboration with salix pharmaceuticals, ltd., mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals, alkermes, inc. and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. for nktr-102 (topoisomerase i inhibitor-polymer conjugate), there are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for ovarian and breast cancers including but not limited to: avastin (bevacizumab), camptosar (irinotecan), doxil (doxorubicin hcl), ellence (epirubicin), gemzar (gemcitabine), herceptin (trastuzumab), hycamtin (topotecan), iniparib, paraplatin (carboplatin), and taxol (paclitaxel). major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for these cancers include bristol-meyers squibb, eli lilly co., roche, glaxosmithkline plc, johnson and johnson, pfizer, inc., sanofi aventis, and many others. there are approved therapies for the treatment of colorectal cancer, including eloxatin (oxaliplatin), camptosar (irinotecan), avastin (bevacizumab), erbitux (cetuximab), vectibix (panitumumab), xeloda (capecitabine), adrucil (fluorouracil), and wellcovorin (leucovorin). in addition, there are a number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved chemotherapeutic agents to potentially treat colorectal cancer, including, but not limited to, products in development from bristol-myers squibb company, pfizer, inc., glaxosmithkline plc, antigenics, inc., f. hoffmann-la roche ltd, novartis ag, cell therapeutics, inc., neopharm inc., meditech research ltd, alchemia limited, enzon pharmaceuticals, inc. and others. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. we could be involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our obligations to them. the third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain products or product candidates in the u.s. and abroad. for instance, f. hoffmann-la roche ltd, to which we license our 38 table of contents proprietary pegylation reagent for use in the mircera product, was a party to a significant patent infringement lawsuit brought by amgen inc. related to roche proposed marketing and sale of mircera to treat chemotherapy anemia in the u.s. in october 2008, a federal court ruled in favor of amgen, issuing a permanent injunction preventing roche from marketing or selling mircera in the u.s. in december 2009, the u.s. district court for the district of massachusetts entered a final judgment and permanent injunction, and roche and amgen entered into a settlement and limited license agreement which allows roche to begin selling mircera in the u.s. in july 2014. third-party claims involving proprietary rights or other matters could also result in the award of substantial damages to be paid by us or a settlement resulting in significant payments to be made by us. for instance, a settlement might require us to enter a license agreement under which we pay substantial royalties or other compensation to a third party, diminishing our future economic returns from the related product. in 2006, we entered into a litigation settlement related to an intellectual property dispute with the university of alabama in huntsville pursuant to which we paid $11.0 million and agreed to pay an additional $10.0 million in equal $1.0 million installments over ten years ending with the last payment due on july 1, 2016. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. costs associated with such litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered product candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the expenses generated by these activities. our decision to bring nktr-102 into phase 3 trials and to bear a majority or all of the clinical development costs substantially increases our expenses. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through further reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the 39 table of contents regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, regulatory, finance, marketing and distribution and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. in particular, as we plan to advance nktr-102 into late stage development, additional highly qualified personnel will be required. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if earthquakes and other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and own and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; 40 table of contents establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, we have in place a preferred share purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill. the provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefits plan which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. risks related to our securities the price of our common stock and convertible debt are expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2010, based on closing bid prices on the nasdaq global select market, our stock price ranged from $9.39 to $15.88 per share. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. in addition, as our convertible notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of our notes. also, interest rate fluctuations can affect the price of our convertible notes. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock or notes, including: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical trials or those of our competitors, including delays in clinical development, approval or launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to products using our technologies; announcements or terminations of collaboration agreements by us or our competitors; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; hedging activities by purchasers of our convertible notes; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; and general market conditions. our stockholders may be diluted, and the price of our common stock may decrease, as a result of the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants, the restructuring of our convertible notes, or the future issuances of securities. we may restructure our convertible notes or issue additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. furthermore, substantially all shares of common stock for which our outstanding stock options or warrants are exercisable are, once they have been purchased, eligible for immediate sale in the public market. the issuance of additional common stock, preferred 41 table of contents stock, restricted stock units or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock or the exercise of stock options or warrants would dilute existing investors and could lower the price of our common stock. restructuring of our convertible notes or raising additional funds by issuing equity securities could cause significant dilution to existing stockholders; restructured or additional debt financing may restrict our operations. if we raise additional funds through the restructuring of our convertible notes or issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be diluted significantly, and these restructured or newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. if we restructure our notes or incur additional debt financing, the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness may limit funds available for our business activities, and we could be subject to covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business and make distributions to our stockholders. these restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on the ability of us to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short-term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $0.6 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2010. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2010. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.8 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2009. due to the potential for continued uncertainty in the credit markets in 2011, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of our short-term investments. these investments are generally held to maturity, which is less than one year. however, if the need arose to liquidate such securities before maturity, we may experience losses on liquidation. as of december 31, 2010, we held $298.2 million of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of 145 days. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. we have the ability and intent to hold our debt securities to maturity when they will be redeemed at full par value. accordingly, we consider unrealized losses to be temporary and have not recorded a provision for impairment. foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities outside the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the indian rupee, and we therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 59 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures of market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures of market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in highly liquid and high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short term securities and maintain an average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $0.9 million decrease (less than 3%) in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2003. the potential change noted above is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position at december 31, 2003. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.7 million decrease (less than 0.255%) in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2002. increases in the interest rates and fluctuations in our stock price could affect the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes and debentures, which pay a fixed rate of interest. as of december 31, 2003, we had approximately $360.0 million in outstanding convertible subordinated notes and debentures with a fair value of $406.6 million. 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures of market riskrisk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. risks related to our business drug development is an inherently uncertain process and there is a high risk of failure at every stage of development and development failures can significantly harm our business. we have a number of proprietary product candidates and partnered product candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and a highly uncertain processes. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to complete clinical trials. drug development is an uncertain scientific and medical endeavor and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of clinical development even after early preclinical or mid-stage clinical results suggest that the drug candidate has potential as a new therapy that may benefit patients and health authority approval would be anticipated. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. we or our partners have a number of important product candidates in mid- to late-stage development such as bayer's amikacin inhale, oral nktr-118 (oral pegylated naloxol) and nktr-119 which we partnered with astrazeneca, affymax's hematide, and nktr-102 (pegylated irinotecan) in a number of oncology indications including breast, colorectal and ovarian cancers. we also have an ongoing phase 1 clinical trial for nktr-105 (pegylated docetaxel) for patients with refractory solid tumors. any one of these trials could fail at any time as clinical development of drug candidates presents numerous unpredictable risks and is very uncertain at all times prior to regulatory approval by one or more health authorities in major markets. 24 even with success in preclinical testing and clinical trials, the risk of clinical failure remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant unforeseen setbacks in later stage clinical trials (i.e., phase 2 or phase 3 trials) due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy results and adverse medical events, even after achieving positive results in earlier trials that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing regulatory agencies. although we announced positive phase 2 clinical results for oral nktr-118 (oral pegylated naloxol) in 2009, there are still substantial risks and uncertainties associated with the future outcome of a phase 3 clinical trial and the regulatory review process even following the astrazeneca transaction. while nktr-102 (pegylated irinotecan) continues in phase 2 clinical development for multiple cancer indications, it is possible this product candidate could fail in one or all of the cancer indications in which it is currently being studied due to efficacy, safety or other commercial or regulatory factors. on january 12, 2010, we announced preliminary positive results from stage one of our phase 2 trial for ovarian cancer patients. these results were based on preliminary data only and such results could change based on final data gathering and analysis review procedures. in addition, the preliminary results from stage 1 of the nktr-102 clinical study for ovarian cancer is not necessarily indicative or predictive of the future results from stage 2 of this clinical study or the other cancer indication where we are studying nktr-102. as a result, there remains a significant uncertainty as to the success or failure of nktr-102 and whether this drug candidate will eventually receive regulatory approval or be a commercial success even if approved by one or more health authorities in any of the cancer indications for which it is being studied. the risk of failure is increased for our product candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to small molecules, including without limitation oral nktr-118, oral nktr-119, nktr-102, nktr-105 and other drug candidates currently in the discovery research or preclinical development phases. if our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies fail to generate new drug candidates with positive clinical trial results and approved drugs, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially harmed. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development expenses and develop and commercialize our product candidates, including nktr-102. in september 2009, we entered into a license agreement with astrazeneca for nktr-118 and nktr-119 which included an upfront payment of $125.0 million. the completion of the astrazeneca transaction was critical to our financial results and financial condition for the year ended december 31, 2009. we intend to seek a collaboration partner for nktr-102 prior to commencing any phase 3 clinical trials for this drug candidate. whether we ultimately enter into a collaboration agreement for nktr-102 will depend on the partnership opportunities available to us. our ability to successfully conclude a collaboration partnership for nktr-102 on commercially favorable terms, or at all, will have a significant impact on our business and financial position in 2010. the timing of any future partnership, as well as the terms and conditions of the partnership, will affect our ability to benefit from the relationship. if we are unable to find suitable partners or to negotiate collaborative arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future product candidates or the licensing of our technology, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our technology on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, medical devices and equipment and methods for preparation, packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical compositions. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaborative partners' technology by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties however the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. the failure to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, if needed, would have a material adverse effect on us. 25 if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own approximately 100 u.s. and approximately 380 foreign patents and a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be valid and enforceable or that patents for which we apply will issue with broad coverage, if at all. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued and, as a consequence, our patent applications may result in patents with narrow coverage. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. as part of the patent application process, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. further, an issued patent may undergo further proceedings to limit its scope so as not to provide meaningful protection and any claims that have issued, or that eventually issue, may be circumvented or otherwise invalidated. any attempt to enforce our patents or patent application rights could be time consuming and costly. an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following commercialization of related products. there are many laws, regulations and judicial decisions that dictate and otherwise influence the manner in which patent applications are filed and prosecuted and in which patents are granted and enforced. changes to these laws, regulations and judicial decisions are subject to influences outside of our control and may negatively affect our business, including our ability to obtain meaningful patent coverage or enforcement rights to any of our issued patents. new laws, regulations and judicial decisions may be retroactive in effect, potentially reducing or eliminating our ability to implement our patent-related strategies to these changes. changes to laws, regulations and judicial decisions that affect our business are often difficult or impossible to foresee, which limits our ability to adequately adapt our patent strategies to these changes. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict and if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement, patient and physician preferences, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our successful product candidates following approval by health authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market in one or more geographies by the assertion of one or more patents covering such approved drug. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a product candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such product candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestones could be significantly diminished and would negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is derived from our collaboration agreements with partners, under which we may receive contract research payments, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties or manufacturing revenue. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from the nature of significant milestone payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical, regulatory or sales events which result in single milestone payments and the timing and success of the commercial launch of new drugs by our collaboration partners. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our partner achieve clinical and sales milestones, whether the partnership is exclusive or whether we can seek other partners, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. 26 if our partners, on which we depend to obtain regulatory approvals for and to commercialize our partnered products, are not successful, or if such collaborations fail, the development or commercialization of our partnered products may be delayed or unsuccessful. when we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a product candidate with a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company, the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company is generally expected to: design and conduct large scale clinical studies; prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given product candidate; and/or market and sell our products when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of risks to our business, including risks that: we may be unable to control whether, and the extent to which, our partners devote sufficient resources to the development programs or commercial marketing and sales efforts; disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; contracts with our partners may fail to provide us with significant protection, or to be effectively enforced, in the event one of our partners fails to perform; partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered products than they do to products of their own development or products in-licensed from other third parties; the timing and level of resources that our partners dedicate to the development program will affect the timing and amount of revenue we receive; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partner companies may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have substantial negative or positive impact on our business. we have entered into collaborations in the past that have been subsequently terminated, such as our collaboration with pfizer for the development and commercialization of inhaled insulin that was terminated by pfizer in november 2007. if other collaborations are suspended or terminated, our ability to commercialize certain other proposed product candidates could also be negatively impacted. if our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of product candidates could be delayed or cancelled, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 27 if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for product candidates on a timely basis, if at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. product candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive fda mandated or equivalent foreign authorities' review process for safety and efficacy. this process generally takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. the time required for completing testing and obtaining approvals is uncertain, and the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional clinical development or other testing at any phase of development, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. our partnered products that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered product development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the partnership; royalties on end product sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, patent life, generic competitors, and other factors; and indemnity obligations for third-party intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. on september 20, 2009, we entered into a worldwide exclusive license agreement with astrazeneca for the further development and commercialization of nktr-118 and nktr-119. in addition, we have also entered into complex commercial agreements with novartis in connection with the sale of certain assets related to our pulmonary business, associated technology and intellectual property to novartis (novartis pulmonary asset sale), which was completed on december 31, 2008. our agreements with astrazeneca and novartis contain complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations that could result in substantial future liability and harm our financial condition if we breach any of our agreements with astrazeneca or novartis or any third party agreements impacted by this complex transaction. as part of the pulmonary asset sale, we entered an exclusive license agreement with novartis pharma pursuant to which novartis pharma grants back to us an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free and worldwide license under certain specific patent rights and other related intellectual property rights necessary for us to satisfy certain continuing contractual obligations to third parties, including in connection with development, manufacture, sale and commercialization activities related to our partnered program for bay41-6551 with bayer healthcare llc . we also entered into a service agreement pursuant to which we have subcontracted to novartis certain services to be performed related to our partnered program for bay41-6551 and a transition services agreement pursuant to which novartis and we will provide each other with specified services for limited time periods following the closing of the novartis pulmonary asset sale to facilitate the transition of the acquired assets and business from us to novartis. 28 from time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. one or more disputes may arise in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. if we or our partners are not able to manufacture drugs in quantities and at costs that are commercially feasible, our proprietary and partnered product candidates may experience clinical delays or constrained commercial supply which could significantly harm our business. if we are not able to scale-up manufacturing to meet the drug quantities required to support large clinical trials or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, we risk delaying our clinical trials or those of our partners, may breach contractual obligations and incur associated damages and costs, and reduce or even eliminate associated revenues. in some cases, we may subcontract manufacturing or other services. for instance, we entered a service agreement with novartis pursuant to which we subcontract to novartis certain important services to be performed in relation to our partnered program for bay41-6551 with bayer healthcare llc. if our subcontractors do not dedicate adequate resources to our programs, we risk breach of our obligations to our partners. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. further, our drug and device combination products, such as bay41-6551 and the cipro inhale program, require significant device design, formulation development work and manufacturing scale-up activities. further, we have experienced delays in starting the phase 3 clinical development program for bay41-6551 as we work to finalize the device design with a demonstrated capability to be manufactured at commercial scale. this work is ongoing. drug/device combination products are particularly complex, expensive, time-consuming and uncertain due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient/doctor use, maintenance of clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. failure to manufacture products in quantities or at costs that are commercially feasible could cause us not to meet our supply requirements, contractual obligations or other requirements for our proprietary product candidates and, as a result, would significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunity or contract liability to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations, and any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing operating loss to the extent we cannot pass on increased costs to a manufacturing customer. we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 29 we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. for the year ended december 31, 2009, we reported a net loss of $102.5 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop products utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow through increased revenue or raising additional capital, we may not be able to meet our substantial debt obligations. as of december 31, 2009, we had cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $396.2 million and approximately $240.7 million of indebtedness, including approximately $215.0 million in convertible subordinated notes due september 2012, $20.3 million in capital lease obligations, and $5.4 million of other long-term liabilities. our substantial indebtedness has and will continue to impact us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing; constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate; constraining our stock price; and constraining our ability to invest in our proprietary product development programs. currently, we are not generating positive cash flow. if we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, substantial liquidity problems could result. in relation to our convertible subordinated notes, since the market price of our common stock is significantly below the conversion price, the holders of our outstanding convertible subordinated notes are unlikely to convert the notes to common stock in accordance with the existing terms of the notes. if we do not generate sufficient cash from operations to repay principal or interest on our remaining convertible subordinated notes, or satisfy any of our other debt obligations, when due, we may have to raise additional funds from the issuance of equity or debt securities or otherwise restructure our obligations. any such financing or restructuring may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. if we cannot raise additional capital, our financial condition will suffer. we have no material credit facility or other material committed sources of capital. to the extent operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital needs, we will have to raise additional funds from new collaboration partnerships or the capital markets to continue the marketing and development of our technologies and proprietary products. such funds may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. we may be unable to obtain suitable new collaboration partners on attractive terms and our substantial indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional capital markets financing. if adequate funds are not available on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. our inability to raise capital could harm our business and our stock price. to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities would result in dilution to our stockholders. 30 if government and private insurance programs do not provide reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. a government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. though we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials and are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or our reliance on results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices ( cgmp ), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers' adherence to such cgmp regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. the results of these inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 31 significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our pegylation and polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include the dow chemical company, enzon pharmaceuticals, inc., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing pegylation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are several competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for bay41-6551 (amikacin inhale), the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. for oral nktr-118 (pegylated naloxol), there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including adolor corporation, glaxosmithkline plc, progenics pharmaceuticals, inc., pfizer (via wyeth acquisition completed in 2009), mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. for nktr-102 (peg-irinotecan), there are a number of approved therapies for the treatment of colorectal cancer, including eloxatin, camptosar, avastin, erbitux, vectibux, xeloda, adrucil and wellcovorin. in addition, there are a number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved chemotherapeutic agents to potentially treat colorectal cancer, including, but not limited to, products in development from bristol-myers squibb company, pfizer, inc., glaxosmithkline plc, antigenics, inc., f. hoffmann-la roche ltd, novartis ag, cell therapeutics, inc., neopharm inc., meditech research ltd, alchemia limited, enzon pharmaceuticals, inc. and others. there are also a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for ovarian and breast cancers including but not limited to: avastin (bevacizumab), camptosar (irinotecan), doxil (doxorubicin hcl ), ellence (epirubicin), gemzar (gemcitabine), herceptin (trastuzumab), hycamtin (topotecan), paraplatin (carboplatin), and taxol (paclitaxel). these therapies are only partially effective in treating ovarian or breast cancers. major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for these cancers include bristol-meyers squibb, genentech, inc., glaxosmithkline plc, johnson and johnson, pfizer, inc., eli lilly &amp; co., and many others. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. we could be involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights. the third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain products or product candidates in the u.s. and abroad. for instance, f. hoffmann-la roche ltd, to which we license our proprietary pegylation reagent for use in the mircera product, was a party to a significant patent infringement lawsuit brought by amgen inc. related to roche's proposed marketing and sale of mircera to treat chemotherapy anemia in the u.s. in october 2008, a federal court ruled in favor of amgen, issuing a permanent injunction preventing roche from marketing or selling mircera in the u.s. in december 2009, the u.s. district court for the district of massachusetts entered a final judgment and permanent injunction, and roche and amgen entered into a settlement and limited license agreement which allows roche to begin selling mircera in the u.s. in july 2014. 32 third-party claims could also result in the award of substantial damages to be paid by us or a settlement resulting in significant payments to be made by us. for instance, a settlement might require us to enter a license agreement under which we pay substantial royalties to a third party, diminishing our future economic returns from the related product. in 2006, we entered into a litigation settlement related to an intellectual property dispute with the university of alabama in huntsville pursuant to which we paid $11.0 million and agreed to pay an additional $10.0 million in equal $1.0 million installments over ten years ending with the last payment due on july 1, 2016. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. costs associated with such litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered product candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the expenses generated by these activities. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through further reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products that we would not otherwise relinquish. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, regulatory, finance, marketing and distribution and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. 33 if earthquakes and other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, we have in place a preferred share purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill. the provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefits plan which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. risks related to our securities the price of our common stock and senior convertible debt are expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2009, based on closing bid prices on the nasdaq global select market, our stock price ranged from $4.03 to $10.47 per share. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. in addition, as our convertible senior notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of our notes. also, interest rate fluctuations can affect the price of our convertible senior notes. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock or notes, including: 34 announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical trials or those of our competitors, including delays in clinical development, approval or launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to products using our technologies; announcements or terminations of collaboration agreements by us or our competitors; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; hedging activities by purchasers of our convertible senior notes; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; and general market conditions. our stockholders may be diluted, and the price of our common stock may decrease, as a result of the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants or the future issuances of securities. we may issue additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. furthermore, substantially all shares of common stock for which our outstanding stock options or warrants are exercisable are, once they have been purchased, eligible for immediate sale in the public market. the issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock or the exercise of stock options or warrants would dilute existing investors and could adversely affect the price of our securities.quantitative and qualitative disclosures of market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures of market risk interest rate risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in highly liquid and high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $1.2 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2004. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2004. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.9 million decrease, less than 3%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2003. foreign currency risk our operations include research and development, manufacturing, and sales activities in the u.s. and europe. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we have exposure. our operating results are exposed to changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, most significantly the british pound. to limit our economic exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to british pounds, we periodically purchase british pounds on the spot market and hold in a u.s. bank account. at december 31, 2004, we held british pounds valued at approximately $8.4 million in a u.s. bank account, using the exchange rate as of period end. this amount is included in cash on our balance sheet. during the year ended 60 table of contents december 31, 2004, an immaterial amount of losses resulting from revaluing british pounds at the current exchange rate were included in other income (expense). as part of our risk management strategy, we may decide to use derivative instruments, including forwards, foreign currency swaps and options to hedge certain foreign currency and interest rate exposures, however, to date we have not entered into any such derivative instruments. we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. a hypothetical 10% increase in the u.s. dollar relative to the british pound as of december 31, 2004, would have resulted in an additional $0.7 million of foreign exchange loss on the british pounds held in our account in the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2004. we did not hold british pounds in a u.s. bank account during the year ended december 31, 2003. interest rate risk on our convertible subordinated notes increases in the interest rates and fluctuations in our stock price could affect the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes and debentures, which pay a fixed rate of interest. as of december 31, 2004, we had approximately $173.9 million in outstanding convertible subordinated notes and debentures with a fair value of $171.3 million. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $1.8 million decrease and a $4.0 million decrease in the fair value of our convertible subordinated debentures as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 61 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures of market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures of market risk interest rate risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in highly liquid and high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $1.2 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2004. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2004. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.9 million decrease, less than 3%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2003. 61 table of contents foreign currency risk our operations include research and development, manufacturing, and sales activities in the u.s. and europe. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we have exposure. our operating results are exposed to changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, most significantly the british pound. to limit our economic exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to british pounds, we periodically purchase british pounds on the spot market and hold in a u.s. bank account. at december 31, 2004, we held british pounds valued at approximately $8.4 million in a u.s. bank account, using the exchange rate as of period end. this amount is included in cash on our balance sheet. during the year ended december 31, 2004, an immaterial amount of losses resulting from revaluing british pounds at the current exchange rate were included in other income (expense). as part of our risk management strategy, we may decide to use derivative instruments, including forwards, foreign currency swaps and options to hedge certain foreign currency and interest rate exposures, however, to date we have not entered into any such derivative instruments. we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. a hypothetical 10% increase in the u.s. dollar relative to the british pound as of december 31, 2004, would have resulted in an additional $0.7 million of foreign exchange loss on the british pounds held in our account in the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2004. we did not hold british pounds in a u.s. bank account during the year ended december 31, 2003. interest rate risk on our convertible subordinated notes increases in the interest rates and fluctuations in our stock price could affect the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes and debentures, which pay a fixed rate of interest. as of december 31, 2004, we had approximately $173.9 million in outstanding convertible subordinated notes and debentures with a fair value of $171.3 million. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $1.8 million decrease and a $4.0 million decrease in the fair value of our convertible subordinated debentures as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 22 risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions that we believe are relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and section 27a of the securities act of 1933. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. our revenue and results of operations will depend on the successful commercial launch of exubera &reg; . we currently depend on pfizer inc as the source of a significant portion of our revenues. for the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004, revenue from pfizer inc accounted for 64% and 61%, respectively, of our total revenue. after receipt of regulatory approval for marketing in the u.s. and eu in january 2006 and the anticipated commercial launch of exubera &reg; by pfizer inc in 2006, we expect a significant portion of our future revenue from pfizer inc will come from the commercial manufacture and sale of bulk powder insulin to pfizer inc, the sale of exubera &reg; pulmonary inhalers and component parts to pfizer inc, and royalties from exubera &reg; product sales by pfizer inc. there can be no assurance regarding the timing or success of the exubera &reg; commercial launch which will depend on such factors as the timing, scope, and size of pfizer inc investment in the commercial launch of exubera &reg; , physician and patient education and experiences, third party payor reimbursement, country specific pricing approvals, and competition from alternative insulin therapies. if the commercial launch of exubera &reg; is delayed or not successful it would significantly and negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. if we are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient quantities of powder formulated drugs to meet market demand it would negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. drug powder product manufacturing we have limited experience manufacturing powder drug products at commercial scale. with respect to drugs based on the nektar pulmonary technology, such as exubera &reg; , we have only performed powder processing on the scale needed for larger clinical trials but not commercial production. we may encounter manufacturing and quality control problems as we scale-up powder processing to provide commercial quantities such as insulin powder manufacturing for exubera &reg; . we may not successfully scale-up or expand commercial production in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, if at all. our failure to scale up manufacturing could delay or prevent large scale clinical testing and commercialization of our products and would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. in addition, adding manufacturing capacity requires large capital investments and substantial periods of time to implement and obtain regulatory qualifications for additional manufacturing capacity. as a result of this manufacturing capacity limitation, unplanned fluctuations in demand could result in our inability to meet market demand or increased inventory requirements. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our insulin powder manufacturing facilities for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the results of these inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes, facility or capital equipment upgrades, or suspension or revocation of regulatory approval for our manufacturing site. manufacturing delays pending resolution of regulatory suspensions or disqualifications would have a severe negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. we rely primarily on two particular methods of powder processing. there is a risk that these technologies will not work with all drugs or that the cost of drug production with this processing will preclude the commercial viability of certain drugs. additionally, there is a risk that any alternative powder processing methods we may pursue will not be commercially practical for aerosol drugs or that we will not have, or be able to acquire the rights to use, such alternative methods. 22 table of contents drug powder packaging and filling our fine particle powders and small quantity packaging utilized for drugs based on nektar pulmonary technology, such as the exubera &reg; product, require special handling. we have designed and qualified automated filling equipment for small and moderate quantity packaging of fine powders and we have yet to prove that we can scale-up an automated filling system that can handle the small dose and particle sizes of our powders in commercial quantities. there is a risk that we will not be able to scale-up our automated filling equipment in a timely manner or at commercially reasonable costs. any failure or delay in such scale-up would delay product development or substantially impede commercialization of products based on nektar pulmonary technology and would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. there can be no assurance we will be able to manufacture products on our auto-filler system in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost. any delay or failure in further developing such technology would delay product development or impede commercialization of our products and would have a materially adverse effect on our business. we depend on two contract manufacturers to manufacture the exubera &reg; inhaler devices and the failure to manufacture sufficient quantities of inhalers to meet market demand would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. we depend on two contract manufacturers to manufacture our pulmonary inhaler device for exubera &reg; . dependence on these two contract manufacturers for the manufacture of our exubera &reg; inhaler devices and their suppliers may adversely affect our cost of goods and our ability to scale manufacturing to meet market demand. because the manufacturing process for the exubera &reg; inhaler is very complex and subject to extensive government regulations, alternative qualified contract manufacturers or increased capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. increasing manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers involves risks and uncertainties including significant lead time requirements, increased capital investments, the recruitment and training of additional qualified personnel, and other operational complexities. we also depend on the suppliers of our contract manufacturers to provide a large number of component parts for the exubera &reg; inhaler in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis to meet market demand. a failure by one or more of these suppliers to provide sufficient parts or components on a timely basis to meet market demand would limit our exubera &reg; inhaler production capacity and would have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. in addition, we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our contract manufacturers facilities. although our contract manufacturers have obligations to comply with regulatory requirements, the results of these regulatory inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes, facility or capital equipment upgrades or expansion, or suspension or revocation of u.s. and/or eu approval for one or both of our contract manufacturers. manufacturing delays pending resolution of regulatory suspensions or disqualifications would have a severe impact on our results of operations, financial position, contractual obligations, regulatory approvals, and market share. if pfizer inc is not able to manufacture or fill the bulk insulin powder in sufficient quantities to meet market demand it would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. pfizer inc has responsibility for manufacturing approximately half of the bulk insulin powder for exubera &reg; . pfizer may encounter manufacturing and control problems as they scale-up commercial scale powder processing. pfizer may not be able to successfully achieve commercial scale-up to meet market demand. in addition, we anticipate periodic fda inspections of pfizer inc bulk insulin powder manufacturing facilities for regulatory compliance. the results of these regulatory inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes, facility or capital equipment upgrades, suspension or revocation of fda approval for pfizer inc manufacturing sites. manufacturing delays pending resolution of fda suspension or disqualifications would have a negative impact on our revenue, results of operations, regulatory approvals, and public confidence in the exubera &reg; product. 23 table of contents pfizer inc has responsibility for the automated filling of all of the insulin blister packs for exubera &reg; . we have developed and transferred to pfizer inc an automated filling technology which we believe will be capable of filling blisters on a production scale for exubera &reg; . there are significant technical challenges in scaling-up an automated filling system that can handle the small dose and particle sizes of our powders in commercial quantities. any failure, delay, or lack of scale in the automated filling process would impede commercialization of exubera &reg; and would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. in february 2006, pfizer inc announced that it had closed a transaction to acquire sanofi-aventis partnership interest in the bulk insulin manufacturing facility located in frankfurt, germany. any disruption in manufacturing as a result of post-acquisition integration challenges or other issues could impact the commercial supply of bulk insulin powder and it would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. the discovery of any new or more severe side effects or negative efficacy findings for exubera &reg; could significantly harm our business. while the safety of exubera &reg; for patients has been extensively studied in clinical trials with generally mild to moderate side-effects to date, pfizer inc is conducting controlled long-term safety and efficacy studies of exubera &reg; . exubera &reg; is known to have certain side effects such as a small decrease in lung function generally within the first months of treatment, lowered blood sugar levels that typically occurs with other insulin therapies, and a mild cough within seconds to minutes after taking exubera &reg; . there can be no assurance that additional or more severe side effects or negative efficacy findings may be discovered based on pfizer inc long-term safety and efficacy studies or required reporting of adverse events regarding exubera &reg; , any of which could severely harm our business and result in one or more of the following regulatory events: a voluntary or involuntary recall or market withdrawal of exubera &reg; ; labeling changes such as additional contraindications, warnings, precautions, or adverse reactions that would limit exubera &reg; market potential; and/or a boxed warning in the label; narrowing or other negative alterations to the labeling; restrictions on distribution. in addition, one or more of the above factors would also have the potential to negatively impact pending and planned regulatory registrations for exubera &reg; in other countries. if government and private insurance programs do not pay for our products they will not be widely accepted and it would have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products under development will depend in part upon pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. in addition, such third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the reimbursement status of, newly approved health care products. for example, type 1 and type 2 diabetes patients have current insulin therapies available to them, primarily injectable and oral insulin therapies. pricing for exubera &reg; could be at a premium to currently available insulin therapies. therefore, an important factor in the success of the exubera &reg; commercial launch will be the timing and availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing. adoption of such legislation and regulations could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, medical products. a government or third-party payor decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. 24 table of contents if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of medical products involves an inherent risk of product liability. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we were ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. if we are not successful in designing and developing new and next generation pulmonary inhaler devices it would negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. we face many technical challenges in developing our pulmonary inhaler device to work with a broad range of drugs, to produce such devices in sufficient quantities once developed, and to adapt the devices to different powder formulations. our pulmonary inhaler device being used with exubera &reg; has been approved by regulators in the u.s. and eu. following commercialization of exubera &reg; or in connection with other pulmonary products that we are developing or may develop, additional design and development work may be required to optimize the device for field reliability, changes required by regulators or other issues that may be important to its commercial success such as device portability, convenience, reliability, and ease of use. additional design and development work could lead to a delay in regulatory approval for any product that incorporates the device. there is a risk that we will not successfully meet one or more of these challenges and it would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. if our competitors develop and sell better drug delivery and formulation technologies, then our products or technologies may be uncompetitive or obsolete and it would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. we are aware of other companies engaged in developing and commercializing drug delivery and formulation technologies similar to our technologies. some of our competitors with regard to nektar pulmonary technology include alexza mdc, alkermes, inc., aradigm corporation, 3m, mannkind corporation, microdose technologies inc., quadrant technologies limited, skyepharma, and vectura. in the non-invasive delivery of insulin, there are companies working on inhaled insulin products such as aradigm corporation, alkermes, inc., microdose technologies inc., quadrant technologies limited, and mannkind corporation, all of which are working on pulmonary products and most with announced pharmaceutical partners. although none of these products are currently approved, if they are approved in any of the markets where exubera &reg; is approved, this could affect our revenues from exubera &reg; . in particular, certain of our competitors have announced inhaled insulin programs that, if approved, could compete with exubera &reg; based on smaller devices and/or different insulin formulations that may provide increased efficacy, convenience, ease of use, and/or reliability. some of our competitors with regard to nektar advanced pegylation technology include dow chemical company, sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., neose, nof corporation, and valentis, inc., and there may be several chemical, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical companies also developing pegylation technologies. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. many of our competitors have greater research and development capabilities, experience, manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do and represent significant competition for us. acquisitions of or collaborations with competing drug delivery companies by large pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies could enhance our competitors financial, marketing and other resources. accordingly, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval for products, or gaining market acceptance before us. developments by others could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. for example, certain competitors for our exubera &reg; product could successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval, and commercialize a more convenient, easy to use, smaller pulmonary 25 table of contents insulin inhaler device for insulin which could negatively impact market share for exubera &reg; . there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals, and commercialize next generation products or new products that will successfully compete with those of certain of our competitors. if the collaborative partners we depend on to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our partner products are not successful, or if such collaborations fail, then the product development or commercialization of our partner products may be delayed or unsuccessful. when we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a product with a drug or biotechnology company, the drug or biotechnology company is generally expected to: synthesize active pharmaceutical ingredients to be used as medicines; design and conduct large scale clinical studies; prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug product; and/or market and sell our products when and if they are approved. reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including: the potential inability to control whether and the extent to which our collaborative partners will devote sufficient resources to our programs or products; disputes which may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology and/or intellectual property developed with collaborative partners; disagreements with collaborative partners which could lead to delays in or termination of the research, development or commercialization of product candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration; the potential for contracts with our collaborative partners to fail to provide significant protection or to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform. collaborative partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; the potential for collaborative partners with marketing rights to choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development; risks related to the ability of our collaborative partners to pay us; and the potential for collaborative partners to terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason. given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. we have entered into collaborations in the past that have been subsequently terminated. if other collaborations are suspended or terminated, our ability to commercialize certain other proposed products could also be negatively impacted. if our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of products could be delayed or cancelled and it would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. if we are not able to manufacture our dry powder inhaler device in commercially feasible quantities or at commercially feasible costs, then our pulmonary technology products may not be successfully commercialized. in addition to our inhaler device being used with exubera &reg; , we are developing a breath-actuated compact dry powder inhaler device ( dpi ). we are developing the dpi device to be appropriate for the delivery of either 26 table of contents large or small molecules for short-term use. we face many unique technical challenges in developing the dpi device to work with a broad range of drugs, producing the dpi device in sufficient quantities and adapting the dpi device to different powder formulations. our dpi device is still in clinical testing and production scale-up work is ongoing. further design and development will be required to obtain regulatory approval for the dpi device, enable commercial manufacturing, insure field reliability or manage other issues that may be important to its commercial success. such additional design and development work may lead to a delay in efforts to obtain regulatory approval for any product that incorporates the dpi device, or could delay the timeframe within which the device could be ready for commercial launch. there is a risk that we will not successfully achieve any of these challenges. our failure to overcome any of these challenges would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. our increasing investment in the development and commercialization of our proprietary products prior to seeking partnering arrangements may be unsuccessful and adversely impact our financial condition and liquidity. we intend to fund significant development expenses associated with the development and commercialization of new products, including clinical trials, prior to seeking collaborative relationships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners. while we believe this strategy may result in improved economics for any products ultimately developed and approved, it will require us to invest significant funds in developing these products without reimbursement from a collaborative partner. if we are ultimately not able to negotiate acceptable collaborative arrangements with respect to these products, or any arrangements we do negotiate are not successful, we may not receive an adequate return on these investments and our results of operations and financial condition would suffer. even if our development efforts are ultimately successful, our increased investment in the development of these products could adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity prior to their commercialization. if we fail to establish future successful collaborative relationships, then our financial results may suffer and our product development efforts may be delayed or unsuccessful. we intend to seek future collaborative relationships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund some of our research and development expenses and to develop and commercialize potential products. further, we anticipate that the timing of drug development programs under existing collaborative agreements with our partners will continue to affect our revenues from such agreements. we may not be able to negotiate acceptable collaborative arrangements in the future, and any arrangements we do negotiate may not be successful. if we fail to establish additional collaborative relationships, we will be required to undertake research, development, marketing, and manufacturing of our proprietary product programs at our own expense or discontinue or reduce these activities. if our technologies are not commercially feasible, then it would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. we are in an early stage of development with respect to most of our products. there is a risk that our technologies will not be commercially feasible. even if our technologies are commercially feasible, they may not be commercially accepted across a range of large and small molecule drugs. exubera &reg; is the only product using nektar pulmonary technology that has been approved for use. although the nektar advanced pegylation technology has been incorporated in six products most of the products incorporating this technology are still in clinical trials. the nektar scf technology is in an early stage of feasibility testing. our potential products require extensive research, development and preclinical and clinical testing. our potential products also may involve lengthy regulatory reviews and require regulatory approval before they can be sold. we do not know if, and cannot provide assurance that, any of our potential products will prove to be safe and effective, accomplish the objectives that we or our collaborative partners are seeking through the use of our technologies, meet regulatory standards, or continue to meet such standards if already approved. there is a risk that we, or our 27 table of contents collaborative partners, may not be able to produce any of our potential products in commercial quantities at acceptable costs, or market them successfully. failure to achieve commercial feasibility, demonstrate safety, achieve clinical efficacy, obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully market products will negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. if our pre-clinical or clinical testing trials are delayed or unsuccessful, then we will experience delay or be unsuccessful in having our products commercialized, and our business will be significantly harmed. except for exubera &reg; and products using nektar advanced pegylation technology that have already been approved for marketing by the fda or other regulatory agencies, our product candidates are still in research and development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. it may take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to complete these trials, and failure can occur at any stage in the process. success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in later stage clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to us, our collaborative partners, the fda, or other regulatory authorities. preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval or commercialization. negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated. we typically rely on collaborative partners and third-party clinical investigators to conduct clinical trials of our products and, as a result, we may face additional delaying factors outside our control. we do not know if any of our research and development efforts, including preclinical testing or clinical trials, will adhere to our planned schedules or be completed on a timely basis or at all. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials. if our technologies do not satisfy certain basic feasibility requirements such as total system efficiency and the ability to efficiently attached peg polymer chains, then our products may not be commercially feasible or competitive. we may not be able to achieve the total system efficiency for products based on our pulmonary technology that is needed to be competitive with alternative routes of delivery or formulation technologies. we determine total system efficiency by the amount of drug loss during manufacture, in the delivery system, and in reaching the ultimate site at which the drug exhibits its activity. we would not consider a drug to be a good candidate for development and commercialization using our pulmonary technology if drug loss is excessive at any one stage or cumulatively in the manufacturing and delivery process. our ability to efficiently attach peg polymer chains to a drug molecule is the initial screen for determining whether drug formulations using our advanced pegylation technology are commercially feasible. we would not consider a drug formulation to be a good candidate for development and commercialization using our advanced pegylation technology if we could not efficiently attach a peg polymer chain to such drug without destroying the drug activity. if our drug formulations are not stable, then we will not be able to develop or commercialize products. we may not be able to identify and produce powdered or other formulations of drugs that retain the physical and chemical properties needed to work effectively with our inhaler devices for deep lung delivery using our pulmonary technology, or through other methods of drug delivery using our advanced pegylation technology. formulation stability is the physical and chemical stability of the drug over time and under various storage, shipping and usage conditions. formulation stability will vary with each drug formulation and the type and 28 table of contents amount of ingredients that are used in the formulation. since our drug formulation technology is new and largely unproven, we do not know if our drug formulations will retain the needed physical and chemical properties and performance of the drugs. problems with formulated drug powder stability in particular would negatively impact our ability to develop products based on our pulmonary technology or supercritical fluid technology, or obtain regulatory approval for or market such products. if our drug delivery technologies are not safe, then regulatory approval of our (or our partners) products may not be obtained, or our (or our partners) products may not be developed or marketed of our (or our partners) products may be suspended following commercialization. we, or our collaborative partners, may not be able to prove that potential products using our technologies are safe. our products require lengthy laboratory, animal and human testing. we cannot be certain that these products, and our technology upon which these products are based, will be safe or will not produce adverse side effects. the safety of our formulations will vary with each drug and the ingredients used in our formulation. if any product is found not to be safe, the product will not be approved for marketing or commercialization. in addition, even if a product is approved and commercialized, regulatory authorities could still later suspend or terminate the license to market the product if it is determined that the product does not meet safety or other standards. if the products using nektar pulmonary technology do not provide consistent doses of medicine, then we will not be able to develop, and we or our partners will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize products. we may not be able to provide reproducible dosing of stable formulations of drug compounds. reproducible dosing is the ability to deliver a consistent and predictable amount of drug into the bloodstream over time both for a single patient and across patient groups. reproducible dosing of drugs based on our pulmonary technology requires the development of: an inhalation or other device that consistently delivers predictable amounts of dry powder to the deep lung; accurate unit dose packaging of dry powder; and moisture resistant packaging. since our pulmonary technology is still in development and has only been approved for exubera &reg; and has yet to be commercialized on a broad scale, we cannot be certain that we will be able to develop reproducible dosing of any potential product. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our products on a timely basis, then our revenues and results of operations may be affected negatively. there is a risk that we, or our partners, will not obtain regulatory approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) for unapproved products on a timely basis, or at all. unapproved products must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive fda mandated or equivalent foreign authorities review process. this process generally takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. the time required for completing such testing and obtaining such approvals is uncertain. the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies also have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals including recalls. even though our partners have obtained regulatory approval for some of our products, these products and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by the fda and other regulatory authorities. even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. in addition, any marketed products and manufacturing facilities used in the manufacture of such products will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections. 29 table of contents later discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal of such products from the market, voluntary recall, or suspension of our manufacturing operations. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of products, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. in addition, we may encounter delays or rejections based upon changes in fda regulations or policies, including policies relating to cgmp, during the period of product development. we or our partners may encounter similar delays in other countries. if our technologies cannot be integrated successfully to bring products to market, then our or our partners ability to develop, obtain approval for, or market products, may be delayed or unsuccessful. we may not be able to integrate all of the relevant technologies to provide complete drug delivery and formulation systems. in particular, our development of drugs based on our pulmonary technology relies upon the following several different but related technologies: dry powder formulations; dry powder processing technology; dry powder packaging technology; and deep lung delivery devices. our other technologies may face similar challenges relating to the integration of drug formulation, processing, packaging and delivery device technologies. at the same time we or our partners must: perform laboratory, pre-clinical, and clinical testing of potential products; and scale-up manufacturing processes. all of these steps must be accomplished without delaying any aspect of product development. any delay in one component of product or business development could delay our or our partners ability to develop, obtain approval for, or market products using our delivery and formulation technologies. if we are not able to manufacture products using nektar advanced pegylation technology in commercially feasible quantities or at commercially feasible costs, then our products will not be successfully commercialized. if we are not able to scale-up to large clinical trials or commercial manufacturing for products based on nektar advanced pegylation technology in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, we risk not meeting our customers supply requirements or our contractual obligations. production problems encountered during the second and third quarters of 2004 resulted in the temporary shutdown of our manufacturing facility with respect to our advanced pegylation products. this resulted in a decrease in product revenues and gross margin compared to 2003. although we believe we have addressed these manufacturing problems by expanding our manufacturing capacity, our failure to satisfactorily address these issues in the future or additional production problems may negatively impact our product revenues and results of operations in future periods. in addition, our failure to solve any of these problems could delay or prevent late stage clinical testing, regulatory approval for, and commercialization of our products using nektar advanced pegylation technology and could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. if the market does not accept products based on our technologies, then our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. the commercial success of our potential products depends upon market acceptance by health care providers, third-party payors like health insurance companies and government reimbursement programs, and patients. our 30 table of contents products under development use new technologies and there is a risk that the market will not accept our potential products. market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: the safety and efficacy of products demonstrated in clinical trials; favorable regulatory approval and product labeling; the frequency of product use; the ease of product use; the availability of third-party reimbursement; the availability of alternative technologies; and the price of our products relative to alternative technologies. there is a risk that health care providers, patients or a third party payors will not accept products using our drug delivery and formulation technologies. if the market does not accept our potential products, our revenues and results of operations would be significantly and negatively impacted. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue or following issuance are deemed invalid or if any of our patents are deemed invalid, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. if any of our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we may suffer adverse effects to our ability to develop and commercialize products and to our revenues and results from operations. we have filed patents applications (and we plan to file additional patent applications) covering, among other things, aspects of: nektar pulmonary technology (in general and as it relates to specific molecules) including, without limitation, our powder processing technology, our powder formulation technology, and our inhalation device technology; our advanced pegylation technology; and certain other early stage technologies. as of december 31, 2005, we owned 1,018 issued u.s. and foreign patents that cover various aspects of our technologies, and we have a number of patent applications pending. the patent positions of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and drug delivery companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. there can be no assurance that patents we apply for will be issued, or that patents that are issued will be valid and enforceable. even if such patents are enforceable, we anticipate that any attempt to enforce our patents could be time consuming and costly. additionally, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. as a consequence, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will be granted with broad coverage or whether the claims that eventually issue or that have issued will be circumvented. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions and reagents, medical devices, and equipment and methods for preparation, packaging, and delivery of pharmaceutical compositions. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our technology by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. the failure to obtain licenses if needed would have a material adverse effect on us. 31 table of contents we also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. third parties from time to time have asserted or may assert that we are infringing their proprietary rights based upon issued patents, trade secrets or know-how that they believe cover our technology. in addition, future patents may be issued to third parties that our technology may infringe. we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our partners against any such claims. furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to develop or commercialize some or all of our products in the united states and abroad, and could result in the award of substantial damages. in the event of a claim of infringement, we and our partners may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. there can be no assurance that our partners and we will be able to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such required license could have a material adverse effect on us. access, or our partners access, to drugs to be formulated using our various delivery technologies affects our ability to develop and commercialize our technologies. we intend generally to rely on the ability of our partners to provide access to drugs that we formulate for pulmonary and other forms of delivery. there is a risk that our partners will not be able to provide access to such drugs. this situation is complex, and as such, the ability of any one company, including us, to commercialize a particular drug is unpredictable. in addition, formulations of drugs that are presently under development by us, as well as our drug formulation and delivery technologies, may be subject to issued u.s. and foreign patents (and may be subject in the future to patents that issue from pending patent applications) owned by competitors. therefore, even if our partners provide access to drugs for the formulation of pulmonary and other forms of delivery, there is a risk that third parties will accuse, and possibly a court or a governmental agency will determine, that we and/or our partners infringe third party patent rights covering such drugs and/or the formulation or delivery technologies utilizing such drugs, and we will be prohibited from working with the drug or formulation or delivery technology, or we will be found liable for damages that may not be subject to indemnification, or we may elect to pay such third party royalties under a license to such patent rights if one is available. any such restrictions on access to drugs, liability for damages, prohibition, or payment of royalties would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. we may incur material litigation costs, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. in july 2005, a complaint was filed by the board of trustees of the university of alabama ( uah ) against nektar therapeutics al, corporation, and nektar therapeutics in the united states district court for the northern district of alabama. the complaint alleges patent infringement, breach of a contract royalty obligation, violation of the alabama trade secrets act, and unjust enrichment. in august 2005, uah amended its complaint to add j. milton harris, a nektar employee, as a party to the litigation, add certain additional claims, seek declaratory judgment on patents assigned to the company, and seek compensatory, treble and punitive damages, all in unspecified amounts. in december 2005, uah filed its second amended complaint expanding its previously asserted claims that the company and harris had infringed patents of uah, misappropriated and taken intellectual property rightfully belonging to uah, concealed intellectual property from uah that was rightfully the property of uah, and converted these discoveries for their own profit notwithstanding that the company and harris were fully aware that the inventions rightfully belonged to uah. uah further claimed fraudulent concealment, conversion, detinue, misrepresentation, conspiracy, and, as against harris, breach of express and implied contract and breach of an assignment of application. uah is seeking equitable relief including declaratory judgment, the imposition of a constructive trust, specific performance, injunction, accounting and other relief on the theory that uah should be the record holder of certain patent assigned to the company. we have filed and continue to assert a counterclaim against uah seeking full refund of all royalty 32 table of contents payments erroneously paid to uah under the patent at issue in the original complaint. the litigation is at too early a stage to make an assessment about the probability of the outcome in the case. we intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this litigation, however, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in such defense. from time to time, we are party to various other litigation matters, including several that relate to our patent and intellectual property rights. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and we might have to incur substantial expense in defending these or future lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation. if earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes and other catastrophic events strike, our business may be negatively affected. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development and manufacturing operations, are located in the san francisco peninsula, a region known for seismic activity. a significant natural disaster such as an earthquake could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. there are no backup facilities for some of our manufacturing operations located in the san francisco peninsula and in the event of any earthquake or other natural disaster or terrorist event, we would not be able to manufacture and supply bulk powder drugs without significant disruption to certain of our other facilities and certain of our collaborative partners located elsewhere may also be subject to catastrophic events such as hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. investors should be aware of industry-wide risks, which are applicable to us and may affect our revenues and results of operations. in addition to the risks associated specifically with us described above, investors should also be aware of general risks associated with drug development and the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. these include, but are not limited to: changes in and compliance with government regulations; handling and disposal of hazardous materials; workplace health and safety requirements; hiring and retaining qualified people; and insuring against product liability claims. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow through increased revenues or raising additional capital, then we may not be able to meet our substantial debt obligations. as of december 31, 2005, we had approximately $417.7 million in long-term convertible subordinated notes, $20.3 million in non-current capital lease obligations, and $21.8 million in other long-term liabilities. our substantial long-term indebtedness, which totaled $459.8 million as of december 31, 2005, has and will continue to impact us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing; and constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate. currently we are not generating positive cash flow. delay or lack of success in the commercial launch of exubera &reg; , or other adverse occurrences related to our product development efforts will adversely impact our ability to meet our obligations to repay the principal amounts on our convertible subordinated notes when due. in addition, if the market price of our common stock is below the related conversion price, the holders of the related outstanding 33 table of contents convertible subordinated notes will not likely convert such securities to equity in accordance with their existing terms. if we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, substantial liquidity problems could result. as of december 31, 2005 we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments valued at approximately $566.4 million. we expect to use a substantial portion of these assets to fund our on-going operations over the next few years. of our approximately $417.7 million of convertible subordinated notes outstanding as of december 31, 2005, $102.7 million will mature in 2007, and the remaining $315.0 million will mature in 2012. we may not generate sufficient cash from operations to repay our convertible subordinated notes or satisfy any other of these obligations when they become due and may have to raise additional funds from the sale of equity or debt securities or otherwise restructure our obligations in order to do so. there can be no assurance that any such financing or restructuring will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. if we cannot raise additional capital our financial condition may suffer. our capital needs may change as a result of numerous factors including without limitation significant investments in our proprietary product programs, and may result in additional funding requirements. in addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations. to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. we have no material credit facility or other material committed sources of capital. to the extent operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet future requirements, we will have to raise additional funds to continue the development and commercialization of our technologies and products. such funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. in particular, our substantial leverage may limit our ability to obtain additional financing. in addition, as an early stage biotechnology company, we do not qualify to issue investment grade debt and therefore any financing we do undertake will likely involve the issuance of equity, convertible debt instruments and/or high-yield debt. these sources of capital may not be available to us in the event we require additional financing. if adequate funds are not available on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. our inability to raise capital could negatively impact our business. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. our ability to offer commercially viable products, achieve our expansion objectives, manage our growth effectively and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration agreements depend on a variety of factors, all of which must be successfully managed. key factors include our ability to develop products internally, enter into strategic partnerships with collaborators, attract and retain skilled employees and effectively expand our internal organization to accommodate anticipated growth including integration of any potential businesses that we may acquire. if we are unable to manage some or all of these factors effectively, our business could grow too slowly or too quickly to be successfully sustained, thereby resulting in material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to manage our executive officer transitions, our business may suffer. in the first quarter of 2006, our former chief financial officer resigned and our chief executive officer has announced his resignation. although we believe our current chief financial officer is very experienced and our interim chief executive officer has been involved with the company for a significant period of time as a prior executive officer and director, any delays or inefficiencies in the transition of responsibilities may also hinder our growth and progress. in addition, we are currently in the process of recruiting a new chief executive officer and a prolonged delay in successfully recruiting this person or inefficiencies in the transition of duties may also hinder our growth and progress. 34 table of contents if we acquire additional companies, products or technologies, we may not be able to effectively integrate personnel and operations and such failure may disrupt our business and results of operations. we have acquired companies, products and/or technologies in the past, and may continue to acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies in the future. we may not receive the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments. we may face risks relating to difficult integrations of personnel, technology and operations, uncertainty whether any integration will be successful and whether earnings will be negatively affected, and potential distractions to our management with respect to these acquisitions. in addition, our earnings may suffer because of acquisition-related costs. we expect to continue to lose money for the next few years and may not reach profitability if our products do not generate sufficient revenue. we have never had a profitable year and, through december 31, 2005, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $902.2 million. we expect to continue to incur substantial and potentially increasing losses over at least the next few years as we expand our research and development efforts, testing activities and manufacturing operations, and as we further expand our late stage clinical and early commercial production facilities. most of our potential products are in the early stages of development. our revenues to date have consisted primarily of payments under short-term research and feasibility agreements and development contracts. to achieve and sustain profitable operations, we must, alone or with others, successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and sell products using our drug delivery technologies. in particular, the successful commercial launch and market acceptance of exubera &reg; will be very important to our financial condition. there is risk that we will not generate sufficient product or contract research revenue to become profitable or to sustain profitability. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law may make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, we have in place a preferred share purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill. the provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market prices. 35 table of contents we expect our stock price to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. in the twelve-month year ending december 31, 2005, based on closing bid prices on the nasdaq national market, our stock price ranged from $13.41 to $19.80. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, including: announcement of results indicating the level of success of the commercial launch and market acceptance of exubera &reg; ; clinical trial results or product development delays or delays in product approval or launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to products using our technologies; announcements or terminations of collaborative relationships by us or our competitors; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; governmental regulation; litigation brought against us; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; and general market conditions. new and potential new accounting pronouncements may impact our future financial position and results of operations. there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. for example, in december 2004, the fasb issued an amendment to sfas no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation ( fas 123r ) . we have implemented this standard for the reporting period commencing january 1, 2006. sfas no. 123 eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using accounting principles board opinion no. 25 ( apb 25 ), and instead requires companies to recognize compensation expense using a fair-value based method for costs related to share-based payments including stock options, [restricted stock awards], and employee stock purchase plans. the adoption of sfas no. 123r will materially impact our financial position and results of operations for future periods. our actual share-based compensation expense in 2006 and subsequent periods will be dependent on a number of factors, including the amount of awards granted and the fair value of those awards at the time of grant. also, a change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. other new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business, which may also adversely affect our stock price. our business is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. we are subject to rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec and nasdaq, have issued new requirements and regulations and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to 36 table of contents recent laws enacted by congress, most notably the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ). our efforts to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, substantial general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention to sox compliance activities. in particular, our efforts to comply with section 404 of sox and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors audit of that assessment has required, and continues to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. our management determined, as of the year ended december 31, 2004, that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. we began our remediation efforts in the first half of 2005 and management continued to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting through december 31, 2005, when we concluded that there were no deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that would constitute a material weakness as of that date. although we are making additional improvements in our internal controls over financial reporting, in future periods we may conclude that we have one or more material weaknesses, and remedying these material weaknesses may require significant additional financial and managerial resources and could result in a loss of investor confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting. moreover, because these laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. this evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. the continuing uncertainty that we will meet or continue to meet the requirements of these laws, regulations, and standards, may negatively impact our business operations and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures of market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures of market risk interest rate risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in highly liquid and high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $1.1 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2005. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2004. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $1.2 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2004. foreign currency risk our operations include research and development, manufacturing, and sales activities in the u.s. and europe. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we have exposure. our results of operations are exposed to changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, most significantly the british pound. to limit our economic exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to british pounds, we periodically purchase british pounds on the spot market and hold in a u.s. bank account. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, we held british pounds valued at approximately $1.3 million and $8.4 million, respectively, in a u.s. bank account, using the exchange rate as of period end. this amount is included in cash on our balance sheet. during the year ended december 31, 2005, an immaterial amount of losses resulting from revaluing british pounds at the current exchange rate were included in other income (expense). as part of our risk management strategy, we may decide to use derivative instruments, including forwards, foreign currency swaps and options to hedge certain foreign currency and interest rate exposures, however, to date we have not entered into any such derivative instruments. we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. a hypothetical 10% increase in the u.s. dollar relative to the british pound as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, would have resulted in an additional $0.1 million and $0.7 million of foreign exchange loss on the british pounds held in our account in the u.s. for the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and section 27a of the securities act of 1933. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. our revenue and results of operations depend on sales to pfizer. we currently depend on pfizer as the source of a significant portion of our revenues. revenue from pfizer represented 64% and 64% of our total revenue for the years ending december 31, 2006 and december 31, 2005. we expect a significant portion of our future revenue from pfizer will come from the commercial manufacture and sale of exubera inhalation powder to pfizer, the sale of exubera inhalers and component parts to pfizer, and royalties from exubera product sales by pfizer. under our collaboration agreement with pfizer, the exubera royalties depend on the level of exubera sales and pfizer cost of goods sold for the product. the commercial launch of exubera is in the early stages and it is difficult to predict future exubera sales levels and the royalties we will receive from those sales. the exubera commercial launch is in the early stages and there can be no assurance regarding the commercial success of exubera. pfizer has taken a phased approach to the exubera commercial launch. in the second half of 2006, the first phase of the exubera launch focused on manufacturing scale-up activities and the education of diabetes specialists. in 2007, pfizer initiated the next phase of the launch expanding the education, marketing and sales efforts more broadly to primary care physicians. we do not participate in any way in the sales and marketing of exubera and therefore have no direct control over the commercial success of exubera. there can be no assurance regarding the commercial success of exubera which will depend on such factors as pfizer investment in the marketing and sales of exubera, physician and patient education and experiences, third party payor reimbursement, country specific pricing approvals, size of the market for inhaled insulin, successful product manufacturing and the impact of competition from other diabetes therapies. if sales of exubera are not successful or delayed, it would have a material impact on our revenue, results of operations, and financial condition. if we are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient quantities of exubera inhalation powder to meet market demand it would negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. we have performed insulin powder processing on the scale needed for commercial production of exubera inhalation powder for approximately one year. although we have been substantially successful at meeting our exubera inhalation powder manufacturing objectives to date, we could encounter manufacturing and quality control problems as we continue to manufacture large commercial quantities. if market demand requires, we may not be able to expand commercial production of exubera inhalation powder in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost. increasing manufacturing capacity requires significant capital investments and substantial periods of time to implement and obtain regulatory qualifications. as a result of the long-lead time required to add manufacturing capacity, increases in demand for exubera could result in our inability to meet market demand. we are required to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our powder drug manufacturing facilities for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the results of these inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes, 23 table of contents facility or capital equipment upgrades, or suspension of manufacturing until the fda is satisfied that the manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays for exubera inhalation powder pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations. we depend on two contract manufacturers to manufacture the exubera inhalers and the failure to manufacture sufficient quantities of the exubera inhalers to meet market demand would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. we depend on two contract manufacturers and their supply chains to manufacture and supply the exubera inhalers. because the manufacturing process for the exubera inhaler is complex and subject to extensive government regulations, alternative qualified contract manufacturers or increased capacity may not be available on a timely basis, at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. increasing manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers involves significant risks and uncertainties including significant lead time requirements, large capital investments, the recruitment and training of additional qualified personnel, and other operational complexities. although our contract manufacturers have been successful at meeting the commercial manufacturing objectives for exubera inhalers to date, there can be no assurance that in future periods our contract manufacturers may not experience manufacturing or quality control problems or that they will be able to continue to scale-up manufacturing to meet commercial demand for the exubera inhaler devices. we also depend on the suppliers of our contract manufacturers to provide a large number of component parts for the exubera inhaler in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis to meet market demand. a failure by one or more of these suppliers to provide sufficient parts or components in accordance with our specifications on a timely basis to meet market demand would limit our exubera inhaler production capacity and would have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. in addition, we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our contract manufacturers facilities. although our contract manufacturers have obligations to comply with regulatory requirements, the results of these regulatory inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes, facility or capital equipment upgrades or expansion, or suspension of manufacturing until the fda is satisfied that the manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a severe negative impact on our revenue, results of operations, and financial position. if pfizer is unable to manufacture and deliver bulk insulin for powder processing, fill the insulin powder into blister packs for the exubera inhaler, or package sufficient quantities of the exubera product to meet market demand, it would significantly and negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. pfizer is responsible for providing the bulk insulin for powder processing, automated filling of all the powder insulin blister packs, and all packaging required for the final exubera product. pfizer may encounter manufacturing, filling or packaging problems that cannot be remedied in a timely manner to meet commercial demand for the exubera product. in addition, pfizer also has the right to manufacture up to one-half of the exubera inhalation powder. in the second half of 2006, pfizer experienced manufacturing scale-up challenges due to the complex exubera manufacturing process designed by pfizer which requires highly automated, specially engineered equipment. any failure, delay or inability to address these challenges and scale-up pfizer portion of the manufacturing, filling and packaging processes could impede exubera sales and would significantly and negatively impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. we also anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of pfizer manufacturing, filling and packaging facilities for regulatory compliance. findings from these regulatory inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes, facility or capital equipment upgrades or suspension of pfizer manufacturing activities until the fda is satisfied that the manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. 24 table of contents manufacturing delays pending resolution of deficiencies or suspension would have a negative impact on our revenue, results of operations, regulatory approvals, and public confidence in the exubera product. the discovery of any new or more severe side effects or negative efficacy findings for exubera could significantly harm our business. while the safety of exubera for patients has been extensively studied in clinical trials with generally mild to moderate side-effects to date, pfizer is conducting controlled long-term safety and efficacy studies of exubera. exubera is known to have certain side effects such as a small decrease in lung function generally within the first months of treatment, lowered blood sugar levels (hypoglycemia) and a mild cough within seconds to minutes after taking exubera. there can be no assurance that additional or more severe side effects or negative efficacy findings may not be discovered based on pfizer long-term safety and efficacy studies or required reporting of adverse events regarding exubera, any of which could severely harm our business and result in one or more of the following regulatory events: a voluntary or involuntary recall or market withdrawal of exubera; labeling changes such as restriction on intended uses, additional contraindications, warnings, precautions, or adverse reactions that would limit exubera market potential; a boxed warning in the label; imposition of post-marketing surveillance studies or risk management programs; distribution restrictions; and adverse publicity. in addition, one or more of the above factors would also have the potential to negatively impact regulatory registrations for exubera in other countries. if we are not successful in developing the next generation exubera pulmonary inhaler device it could negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. we currently are working on the development of a next generation exubera inhaler device which we believe will be important to maintaining a long term competitive advantage for exubera. the objective of these development efforts is to improve the device portability, convenience, reliability and ease of use. there are significant risks associated with this program including developing the formulation for the next generation device, design engineering challenges, design for manufacturability and cost effectiveness and regulatory considerations. the next-generation exubera inhaler will require regulatory approval which could be a very costly and time consuming process with substantial risk. competitors with products under development could successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval, and commercialize a more convenient, easy to use, smaller pulmonary insulin inhaler device for insulin which could negatively impact market share for exubera. if we are not successful in developing a next generation exubera inhaler on a timely basis or at all, it could result in loss of market share for exubera which would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of medical products involves an inherent risk of product liability. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we were ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. 25 table of contents if we fail to establish future successful collaborative relationships, then our results of operation and financial condition may be adversely impacted. we intend to seek future collaborative relationships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund some of our research and development expenses and develop and commercialize product candidates. we are currently seeking partners for two of our proprietary product candidates and the success, timing and terms and conditions of these partnering efforts will affect our revenues and financial results in 2007 and beyond. if we are ultimately not able to negotiate acceptable collaborative arrangements with respect to our existing and future product candidates, or if any arrangements we do negotiate do not include sufficiently favorable commercial terms, we may not receive an adequate return on these investments and our results of operations and financial condition would suffer. if the collaborative partners we depend on to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our partner products are not successful, or if such collaborations fail, then the product development or commercialization of our partner products may be delayed or unsuccessful. when we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a product candidate with a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company, the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company is generally expected to: synthesize active pharmaceutical ingredients to be used in the product candidate; design and conduct large scale clinical studies; prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given product candidate; or market and sell our products when and if they are approved. reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including: the potential inability to control whether and the extent to which our collaborative partners will devote sufficient resources to the development programs or commercial efforts; disputes which may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with collaborative partners; disagreements with collaborative partners which could lead to delays in or termination of the research, development or commercialization of product candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration; the potential for contracts with our collaborative partners to fail to provide significant protection or to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform. collaborative partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; the potential for collaborative partners with marketing rights to choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development; the timing and level of resources that our collaborative partners dedicate to the development program will affect the timing and amount of revenue we receive; risks related to the ability of our collaborative partners to pay us; and the potential for collaborative partners to terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason. given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative partner arrangements. 26 table of contents we have entered into collaborations in the past that have been subsequently terminated. if other collaborations are suspended or terminated, our ability to commercialize certain other proposed product candidates could also be negatively impacted. if our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of product candidates could be delayed or cancelled and it would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. if our preclinical testing or clinical trials or those of our collaborative partners are delayed or unsuccessful, our business could be significantly harmed. all of our partner product candidates and proprietary product candidates are in research and development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. it may take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to complete clinical trials, and failure can occur at any stage and at any time. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials. success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not necessarily predict success in later clinical trials. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in later stage clinical trials due to such factors as inconclusive results and adverse medical events, even after achieving positive results earlier trials that were satisfactory to us, our collaborative partners and the reviewing regulatory agencies. if our partner product candidates or proprietary product candidates fail in clinical trial stage, it could have a significant and adverse impact on our business prospects. we depend on third parties in the conduct of our proprietary product candidate clinical trials and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third party service providers and our collaborators in the conduct of clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials but do not control many aspects of their activities. for example, the investigators are not our employees. however, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates on a timely basis or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, then our revenues and results of operations may be affected negatively. there is a risk that we, or our partners, will not obtain regulatory approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) for product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or that the terms of any approval will impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. product candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive fda mandated or equivalent foreign authorities review process for safety and efficacy. this process generally takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. the time required for completing such testing and obtaining such approvals is uncertain. the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies also have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals including recalls. even though our partners have obtained regulatory approval for some of our products, these products and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by the fda and other regulatory authorities. even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. in addition, any marketed products and manufacturing facilities used in the manufacture of such products will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections. later discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal of such products from the market, recall, or suspension of our manufacturing 27 table of contents operations. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. our collaboration agreements with our partners contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes or litigation that could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, or financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms including: research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partner product development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied to partners by us with complicated cost calculation and allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the collaborative partnership; royalties on end product sales based on a number of complex variables including net sales calculations, cost of goods, geography, patent life, and other financial metrics; and indemnity obligations for third-party intellectual property, infringement, product liability and certain other claims. from time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with our partners regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our collaboration agreements. there can be no assurance that one or more disputes may arise in the future regarding our collaborative contracts which will not ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms that could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, results of operations, or financial condition. because our proprietary product candidates are in the early stages of development, there is a high risk of failure, and we may never succeed in developing marketable products or generating revenue from our proprietary product candidates. we are now applying our pulmonary technology and pegylation technology to our proprietary product development programs. none of our proprietary product candidates have received regulatory approval and our development efforts may never result in a commercialized product. development of our proprietary products will require extensive additional time, effort and cost in preclinical testing and clinical trials. our proprietary product candidates also require lengthy regulatory reviews before they can be marketed by us or our partners. drug development is an uncertain process that involves trial and error, and we may fail at numerous stages along the way. in addition, it can also be very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of early stage product candidates due to such factors as safety and efficacy when compared to other available treatments, changing standards of care, patient and physician preferences and the availability competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long development process or after commercial introduction. our investment in the development and commercialization of our proprietary product candidates prior to seeking partnering arrangements may be unsuccessful and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. our strategy is to fund our proprietary product development programs, including some or all of the clinical trials, prior to partnering with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. while we believe this strategy may result in improved economics for our proprietary product candidates, it will require significant investment by us 28 table of contents without reimbursement. as a result, we bear an increased economic risk in the event one or more of our proprietary product candidates is not successful. even if the product development is ultimately successful, our increased investment could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition prior to commercialization. we may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. third parties from time to time have asserted or may assert that we or our commercial partners are infringing their proprietary rights based upon their patents that they believe cover our technology. in addition, future patents may issue to third parties that may give rise to similar assertions of infringement. we agree, in certain circumstances, to indemnify and hold harmless our collaborative partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our commercial partners against any such claims. furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability or the ability of our partners to develop or commercialize some or all of our products or product candidates in the united states and abroad, and could result in the award of substantial damages. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending litigation or future litigation. costs associated with such litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims, or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. on june 30, 2006, we entered into a litigation settlement related to an intellectual property dispute with the university of alabama huntsville pursuant to which we paid $11 million and agreed to pay an additional $10 million in equal $1 million installments over ten years beginning on july 1, 2007. on august 1, 2006, novo nordisk filed a lawsuit against pfizer in federal court claiming that pfizer willfully infringes on novo patents covering inhaled insulin with exubera. the case is currently proceeding with discovery and other pre-trial activities. although we are not currently a named party in this litigation, we have incurred litigation costs as a result of such litigation and may incur substantial future costs and potential indemnity claims from pfizer associated with the litigation. these and other disputes may have a material impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue or following issuance are deemed invalid, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. we rely on trade secret protection for important proprietary technologies. we have filed patent applications (and we plan to file additional patent applications) covering, among other things, aspects of our pulmonary technology (in general and as it relates to specific molecules) including, without limitation, our powder processing technology, our powder formulation technology, and our inhalation device technology; our pegylation technology; and certain other early stage technologies. we own over 1,000 u.s. and foreign patents and a number of patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. the patent positions of pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. there can be no assurance that patents we apply for will issue, or that patents that have issued will be valid and enforceable. even if such patents are enforceable, we anticipate that any attempt to enforce our patents could be time consuming and costly. additionally, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. as a consequence, we do not know whether any of our patent applications will result in patents with broad coverage or whether the claims that eventually issue or that have issued will be circumvented. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lag behind the date such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. 29 table of contents u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications exist which comprise intellectual property rights and potential rights owned by third parties that relate to pharmaceutical compositions and reagents, medical devices, and equipment and methods for preparation, packaging, and delivery of pharmaceutical compositions. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, these rights will be considered relevant to our technology by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. there can be no assurance that we can obtain on reasonable terms, if at all, a license to any technology that we determine we need or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. the failure to obtain such licenses or obtain such alternative technology would have a material adverse effect on us. we also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. we may be required to obtain intellectual property licenses from third parties and there is a risk we may not be able to obtain such licenses on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, medical devices, and equipment and methods for preparation, packaging, and delivery of pharmaceutical compositions. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaborative partners technology by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. the failure to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, if needed, would have a material adverse effect on us. there is significant competition for our technology platforms and partnered and proprietary product and product candidates which could make our products, product candidates or technologies obsolete or uncompetitive and it would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. there are competitors to our platform technologies and partnered and proprietary products and product candidates. some of our competitors with regard to our pulmonary technology include alexza pharmaceuticals, alkermes, inc., aradigm corporation, 3m, mannkind corporation, microdose technologies inc., skyepharma and vectura. some of our competitors with regard to our pegylation technology include dow chemical company, enzon pharmaceuticals, inc., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., neose, nof corporation and valentis, inc., and there may be several chemical, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical companies also developing pegylation technologies. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are several direct competitors with development programs underway for inhaled insulin products. if these products are approved, they could be competitive to exubera. these companies include novo nordisk, alkermes, inc. in collaboration with eli lilly company, mannkind corporation, and kos pharmaceuticals, all of which are working on various versions of inhaled insulin products in either a liquid or dry powder form. some products are in late stage clinical testing including alkermes inhalable insulin product (air insulin system ) in phase 3 clinical development and mannkind technosphere &reg; insulin system also in phase 3 clinical development. there are other smaller companies that we believe are developing oral or buccal products for insulin delivery, such as biocon, emisphere technologies, inc., coremed corporation, and generex biotechnology corporation. exubera also competes with approved injectable insulins, including both fast-acting and longer-acting basal insulins. lastly, exubera competes with other treatment modalities for diabetes including oral agents and other injectable products approved for patients with type 2 diabetes, such as amilyn pharmaceutical byetta. 30 table of contents many of our competitors have greater research and development capabilities, experience, manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do and represent significant competition for us. acquisitions of or collaborations with competing drug delivery companies by large pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies could enhance our competitors financial, marketing and other resources. accordingly, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval for products, or gaining market acceptance before us. developments by others could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals, and commercialize next generation products or new products that will successfully compete with those of certain of our competitors. if government and private insurance programs do not provide reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted and it would have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partners products and any of our proprietary products that may be approved will depend in part upon pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. in addition, such third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the reimbursement status of, newly approved health care products. for example, type 1 and type 2 diabetes patients have current insulin therapies available to them, primarily injectable and oral insulin therapies. therefore, an important factor in the commercial success of exubera will be the timing and availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing. adoption of such legislation and regulations could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, medical products. a government or third-party payor decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. if we are not able to manufacture products in accordance with cgmp in commercially feasible quantities or at commercially feasible costs, then our proprietary product candidates or those of our partners will not be successfully commercialized. if we are not able to scale-up manufacturing to meet the drug quantities required to support large clinical trials or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, we risk not meeting our collaborative partners supply requirements, our contractual obligations or supply requirements for our proprietary product candidates. building and validating commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training of qualified personnel and obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time-consuming. in addition, we also sometimes face very limited supply for certain critical raw materials from single or a limited number of suppliers that could constrain our manufacturing output. failure to manufacture products in commercially feasible quantities or at commercially feasible costs, would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations and cause us not to meet our customers supply requirements, contractual obligations or requirements for our proprietary product candidates. if earthquakes and other catastrophic events strike, our business may be negatively affected. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development and manufacturing operations, are located in the san francisco peninsula, a region known for seismic activity. a significant natural disaster such as an earthquake would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in the san francisco peninsula and in the event of any earthquake or other natural disaster or terrorist event, we would not be able to manufacture and supply bulk powder drugs, such as the exubera inhalation powder, without 31 table of contents significant disruption. certain of our collaborative partners located elsewhere may also be subject to catastrophic events such as hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow through increased revenues or raising additional capital, then we may not be able to meet our substantial debt obligations. as of december 31, 2006, we had cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $467.0 million and approximately $447.9 million of indebtedness including approximately $417.7 million in convertible subordinated notes, $20.5 million in capital lease obligations and $9.7 million of other long-term liabilities. we expect to use a substantial portion of our cash to fund our on-going operations over the next few years and to repay the $102.7 million of convertible subordinated notes due in 2007. the remaining $315.0 million of convertible subordinated notes will mature in 2012. our substantial indebtedness has and will continue to impact us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing; constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate; and constraining our ability to invest in our proprietary product development programs. currently we are not generating positive cash flow. if exubera is not successful it will adversely impact our ability to meet our debt obligations. in addition, if the market price of our common stock is below the related conversion price, the holders of the related outstanding convertible subordinated notes will not likely convert such securities to equity in accordance with their existing terms. if we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, substantial liquidity problems could result. in the future, we may not generate sufficient cash from operations to repay our remaining convertible subordinated notes or satisfy any other of these obligations when they become due and may have to raise additional funds from the sale of equity or debt securities or otherwise restructure our obligations in order to do so. there can be no assurance that any such financing or restructuring will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. if we cannot raise additional capital our financial condition may suffer. our capital needs may change as a result of numerous factors including without limitation significant investments in our proprietary product candidates, and may result in additional funding requirements. in addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations. to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. we have no material credit facility or other material committed sources of capital. to the extent operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital needs, we will have to raise additional funds to continue the development and commercialization of our technologies and proprietary products. such funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. in particular, our substantial leverage may limit our ability to obtain additional financing. in addition, as an early stage biotechnology company, we do not qualify to issue investment grade debt and therefore any financing we do undertake will likely involve the issuance of equity, convertible debt instruments or high-yield debt. these sources of capital may not be available to us in the event we require additional financing. if adequate funds are not available on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. our inability to raise capital could negatively impact our business. 32 table of contents we recently appointed a new president and chief executive officer and any failure or delay in successfully transitioning duties and responsibilities could have a negative impact on our business. on january 15, 2007, howard w. robin was appointed as our president and chief executive officer. although mr. robin is a very experienced executive in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, any delays or inefficiencies in the transition of duties and responsibilities to mr. robin would have a negative impact on our business. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law may make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, we have in place a preferred share purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill. the provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefits plan which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the twelve-month period ending december 31, 2006, based on closing bid prices on the nasdaq stock market, our stock price ranged from $13.10 to $22.75. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, including: announcement of exubera prescription and sales results; clinical trial results or product development delays or delays in product approval or launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to products using our technologies; announcements or terminations of collaborative relationships by us or our competitors; 33 table of contents fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; governmental regulation; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; and general market conditions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in highly liquid and high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $0.7 million decrease, less than 0.5%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2006. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2006. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $1.1 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2005. foreign currency risk our operations include research and development, manufacturing, sales and purchasing activities in the u.s. and europe. as a result, our financial results could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we have exposure. our results of operations are exposed to changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, most significantly the british pound and euro. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. risks related to our business the termination of our partnership with pfizer is likely to reduce our revenue significantly in 2008. since our inception, we have depended on revenue from pfizer related to exubera contract research and manufacturing. our total revenue from pfizer was $189.1 million and $139.9 million, representing 69% and 64% of total revenue, for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. on november 9, 2007, we entered into a termination agreement and mutual release with pfizer, pursuant to which pfizer made a one-time payment of $135.0 million to us in satisfaction of all outstanding contractual obligations under our then-existing agreements with pfizer related to exubera and the next-generation inhaled insulin development program, also known as ngi. all of our agreements with pfizer, other than the termination agreement and mutual release, terminated as of november 9, 2007, including our collaborative development and licensing agreement with pfizer. as a result of the termination of the pfizer agreements, we expect to derive no revenue from pfizer in 2008 and we may derive no revenue from exubera or ngi if we are unable to secure a new marketing and development partner for these products. we are unlikely to derive revenue from exubera if we do not secure a new marketing and development partner for this product. pursuant to our collaborative development and licensing agreement, and related ancillary agreements, with pfizer, all of which terminated on november 9, 2007, pfizer had sole responsibility for the distribution, sales and marketing of exubera and was also responsible for manufacturing and delivering bulk insulin for powder processing, filling the insulin powder into blister packs for the exubera inhaler and providing the packaging for the final exubera product. without a marketing and development partner, we cannot manufacture the final exubera product on our own. further, we have neither sales and marketing nor distribution operations. to generate any additional revenue from exubera, we will need to secure a collaboration agreement with a new partner. under our termination agreement with pfizer, in the near term, pfizer has agreed to provide certain cooperation to assist us in securing a new marketing and development partner for exubera and/or ngi. however, there is a risk that certain essential terms and conditions may not be mutually agreeable between pfizer and a potential partner. in addition, there is a risk we may not be able to secure such a marketing and development partner for exubera on commercially favorable terms, if at all. even if we are successful in concluding a collaboration agreement with a suitable marketing and development partner for exubera, we anticipate any such partner would require substantial time and incur substantial costs to commercialize exubera successfully. further, regulatory transfer requirements will need to be fulfilled that may require approval from the fda and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities prior to continuing the marketing of exubera. any failure, delay or inability to address available inventory, manufacturing, packaging or regulatory challenges could impede commercialization of exubera or continued clinical development of ngi with a new partner when or if a new collaboration is completed. pfizer holds limited exubera inventory that may not support long-term commercial supply requirements due to dating limitations on the exubera insulin blister pack and inhaler inventories. as a result, in order to continue to commercialize exubera, any new marketing and development partner will be required to provide for the same type of commercial manufacturing and distribution capability as that maintained by pfizer. 24 table of contents any future value from our ngi development program depends on successfully securing a new collaboration partnership. in addition to our collaboration with pfizer on exubera, we collaborated with pfizer on the clinical development of a next-generation inhaler device that is currently in phase 1 clinical development. the objective of the development efforts was to improve the device portability, convenience, reliability and ease of use. there are significant development and marketing risks associated with various aspects of this program, such as developing the insulin formulation for the ngi inhaler, design engineering challenges, designing for manufacturability and cost effectiveness and clinical development and regulatory considerations. under the terms of our termination agreement with pfizer, we have continued phase 1 clinical development activities for ngi substantially at our cost. ngi will require regulatory approval which could be a very costly and time consuming process, and we may not successfully obtain regulatory approval. competitors could be quicker to develop, obtain regulatory approval and commercialize a more convenient, easier to use, smaller pulmonary insulin inhaler device for insulin. either event could reduce the commercial potential for ngi. the inhaled insulin market competes against more well-known and established methods of delivering insulin, such as injection and numerous pre-insulin diabetes therapies. while we believe inhaled insulin has significant delivery advantages over such methods and therapies, the market remains small and will not grow unless diabetics and their doctors perceive a need to switch from subcutaneous insulin delivery to inhaled insulin. the termination of our contract manufacturing agreement for exubera has resulted in significant expenses and charges and could result in future expenses and charges. in february 2008, we terminated our manufacturing and supply agreement with tech group north america, inc. and bespak europe ltd. related to the manufacture and supply of exubera inhalers. as a result of this termination, we incurred $32.4 million in costs in 2007. we also entered into a 2008 continuation agreement with tech group to preserve tech group key personnel and manufacturing facility to support future exubera inhaler manufacturing in the event we successfully conclude a collaboration agreement with a new marketing and development partner for exubera and that partner desires to enter into a new manufacturing and supply agreement with tech group. if we do not conclude a collaboration agreement with a new marketing and development partner for exubera or such partner does not desire to enter into a manufacturing and supply agreement with tech group, we may incur up to $8.0 million in additional cash expenses and charges in connection with concluding the 2008 continuation agreement with tech group. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. in the year ended december 31, 2007, we reported net losses of $32.8 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone payments and license fees received, the timing of revenue under collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop products utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partner products; 25 table of contents receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow through increased revenue or raising additional capital, we may not be able to meet our substantial debt obligations. as of december 31, 2007, we had cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $482.4 million and approximately $345.8 million of indebtedness, including approximately $315.0 million in convertible subordinated notes, $24.0 million in capital lease obligations and $6.8 million of other liabilities. we expect to use a substantial portion of our cash to fund our ongoing operations over the next few years. in 2007, we repaid $66.6 million of our 3.5% convertible subordinated notes due in october 2007. in 2012, $315.0 million of our 3.25% convertible subordinated notes will mature. our substantial indebtedness has and will continue to impact us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing; constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate; constraining our stock price; and constraining our ability to invest in our proprietary product development programs. currently, we are not generating positive cash flow and the negative impact to our revenue of the termination of our agreements with pfizer, and corresponding reduction in our future revenue associated with those agreements, may further reduce our ability to meet our debt obligations. if we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, substantial liquidity problems could result. in relation to our convertible subordinated notes, since the market price of our common stock is significantly below the conversion price, the holders of our outstanding convertible subordinated notes are unlikely to convert the notes to common stock in accordance with the existing terms of the notes. if we do not generate sufficient cash from operations to repay principal or interest on our remaining convertible subordinated notes, or satisfy any of our other debt obligations, when due, we may have to raise additional funds from the issuance of equity or debt securities or otherwise restructure our obligations. any such financing or restructuring may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. if we cannot raise additional capital, our financial condition will suffer. we have no material credit facility or other material committed sources of capital. to the extent operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital needs, we will have to raise additional funds from new collaboration partnerships or the capital markets to continue the marketing and development of our technologies and proprietary products. such funds may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. we may be unable to obtain suitable new collaboration partners on attractive terms and our substantial indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional capital markets financing. if adequate funds are not available on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. our inability to raise capital could harm our business and our stock price. to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities would result in dilution to our stockholders. our revenue has historically depended on revenue from collaboration agreements, causing significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period. other than revenue from sales of exubera inhalation powder and inhaler devices to pfizer in 2006 and 2007, historically, our revenue is principally derived from collaboration agreements with partners. such revenue 26 table of contents includes milestone payments and reimbursement of a portion of our research and development expenses charged to our partners pursuant to collaborative arrangements with them. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we achieve milestones agreed upon with our partners, whether the partnership is exclusive or whether we can seek other partners, the timing of regulatory approvals and the market introduction of new products, as well as other factors. if we are unable to establish and maintain partnerships on commercially attractive terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. in addition to our current efforts to find a new partner for exubera and/or ngi, we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund some of our research and development expenses and develop and commercialize product candidates. for instance, we secured partnerships in 2007 based on our pulmonary and pegylation technology, namely with the execution of a co-development, license and co-promotion agreement with bayer ag for nktr-061 and an exclusive research, development, license and manufacturing and supply agreement with baxter ag for hemophilia b, respectively. the timing of any future partnership, as well as the terms and conditions of the partnership, will affect our ability to benefit from the relationship. if we are unable to fund suitable partners or to negotiate acceptable collaborative arrangements with respect to our existing and future product candidates or the licensing of our technology, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, include unfavorable commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. if our partners, on which we depend to obtain regulatory approvals for and to commercialize our partnered products, are not successful, or if such collaborations fail, the development or commercialization of our partnered products may be delayed or unsuccessful. when we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a product candidate with a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company, the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company is generally expected to: synthesize active pharmaceutical ingredients to be used in the product candidate; design and conduct large scale clinical studies; prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given product candidate; and/or market and sell our products when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including risks that: we may be unable to control whether, and the extent to which, our partners devote sufficient resources to the development programs or commercial efforts; disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration; contracts with our partners may fail to provide us with significant protection, or to be effectively enforced, in the event one of our partners fails to perform; partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; 27 table of contents partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development; the timing and level of resources that our partners dedicate to the development program will affect the timing and amount of revenue we receive; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future partnerships are highly uncertain. we have entered into collaborations in the past that have been subsequently terminated, such as our collaboration with pfizer for exubera and ngi. if other collaborations are suspended or terminated, our ability to commercialize certain other proposed product candidates could also be negatively impacted. if our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of product candidates could be delayed or cancelled, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for product candidates on a timely basis, if at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. product candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive fda mandated or equivalent foreign authorities review process for safety and efficacy. this process generally takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. the time required for completing testing and obtaining approvals is uncertain, and the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. our partnered products that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. if the preclinical testing or clinical trials conducted by us or our partners are delayed or unsuccessful, our business could be significantly harmed. we have a number of partnered product candidates and proprietary product candidates in research and development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. it may take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to complete clinical trials. we have limited experience in clinical development. failure can occur at any stage and at any time, regardless of how successful the results from pre-clinical and prior clinical testing may have been. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to safety, efficacy or other factors. success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not necessarily predict success in later clinical trials. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in later stage clinical trials (i.e., phase 2 or phase 3 trials) due to factors such as 28 table of contents inconclusive results and adverse medical events, even after achieving positive results in earlier trials that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing regulatory agencies. if our partnered product candidates or proprietary product candidates fail during any clinical trial stage, it could have a significant and adverse impact on our business prospects. in addition, the timing of the completion of clinical trials can be very difficult to estimate due to many factors, including the rate of qualified patient enrollment, and therefore clinical testing can take much longer than we plan. if we or our partners are not able to manufacture products in quantities and at costs that are commercially feasible, our proprietary and partnered product candidates will not be successfully commercialized. if we are not able to scale-up manufacturing to meet the drug quantities required to support large clinical trials or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, we risk not meeting our supply requirements and contractual obligations. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. we also sometimes face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could constrain our manufacturing output. in addition, in the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation which has the potential to cause significant delays in clinical development. failure to manufacture products in quantities or at costs that are commercially feasible could cause us not to meet our supply requirements, contractual obligations or other requirements for our proprietary product candidates and, as a result, would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. if government and private insurance programs do not provide reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. a government or third-party payor decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. for instance, since type 1 and type 2 diabetes patients have current insulin therapies available to them (primarily injectable and oral insulin therapies), important factors in the commercial success of exubera and ngi are the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, in addition to patients overall willingness to adopt a new form of insulin therapy. because our proprietary product candidates are in the early stages of development, there is a high risk of failure, and we may never succeed in developing marketable products or generating revenue from our proprietary product candidates. our efforts to apply our pulmonary technology and pegylation technology to our proprietary product development programs may fail. none of our proprietary product candidates have received regulatory approval and our development efforts may not result in a commercialized product. drug development is an uncertain process that involves trial and error, and we may fail at numerous stages along the way or choose to discontinue. development of our proprietary product candidates will require extensive time, effort and cost in preclinical testing and clinical trials and will involve a lengthy regulatory review process before they can be marketed. in particular, successful pre-clinical and phase 1 clinical study results do not necessarily predict success in later 29 table of contents stage clinical trials. it can also be very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of early stage product candidates due to factors such as safety and efficacy when compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, patient and physician preferences and the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction. although nktr-102 (peg-irinotecan) and nktr-118 (oral peg-naloxol) entered phase 2 clinical development in late 2007, because of the substantial risks and uncertainties of clinical programs at this early stage of development, there is no assurance that either product will be approved for marketing or, if approved, will be accepted and used by patients and physicians. our strategy to develop our proprietary product candidates prior to seeking partnership arrangements may be unsuccessful and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our strategy is to fund our proprietary product development programs, including some or all of the clinical trials, prior to partnering with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. while we believe this strategy may result in improved economics for our proprietary product candidates, it will require significant investment by us without reimbursement. for example, we may expand the number of clinical trials for one or more of our proprietary product candidates to additional therapeutic indications to increase the likelihood of success but such strategy can be very expensive and may not result in a successful trial in any of the therapeutic indications due to one or more factors. as a result, we bear an increased economic risk in the event one or more of our proprietary product candidates does not receive regulatory approval or is not successfully commercialized. even if the development of a proprietary product is ultimately successful, our increased investment could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition prior to commercialization since we will have fewer funds available to invest in other products and efforts. we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. though we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials and are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or our reliance on results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely effect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the device manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers adherence to such cgmp regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or 30 table of contents approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. the results of these inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own over 220 u.s. and over 1,200 foreign patents and a number of patent applications pending that cover various aspects of our technologies. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our technologies, including our pulmonary technology, both in general and as it relates to specific molecules, our powder processing technology, our powder formulation technology, our inhalation device technology, our pegylation technology and certain other of our early stage technologies. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be valid and enforceable or that patents for which we apply will issue with broad coverage, if at all. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued and, as a consequence, our patent applications may result in patents with narrow coverage. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lag behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. as part of the patent application process, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office (pto), which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. further, an issued patent may undergo further proceedings to limit its scope so as not to provide meaningful protection and any claims that have issued, or that eventually issue, may be circumvented or otherwise invalidated. any attempt to enforce our patents or patent application rights could be time consuming and costly. an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following commercialization of related products. there are many laws, regulations and judicial decisions that dictate and otherwise influence the manner in which patent applications are filed and prosecuted and in which patents are granted and enforced. changes to these laws, regulations and judicial decisions are subject to influences outside of our control and may negatively affect our business, including our ability to obtain meaningful patent coverage or enforcement rights to any of our issued patents. new laws, regulations and judicial decisions may be retroactive in effect, potentially reducing or eliminating our ability to implement our patent-related strategies to these changes. changes to laws, regulations and judicial decisions that affect our business are often difficult or impossible to foresee, which limits our ability to adequately adapt our patent strategies to these changes. we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our 31 table of contents trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our technology on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, medical devices and equipment and methods for preparation, packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical compositions. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaborative partners technology by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. the failure to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, if needed, would have a material adverse effect on us. significant competition for our technology platforms, our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our platform technologies and partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotech companies. our competitors in the pulmonary technology field include alexza pharmaceuticals, inc., alkermes, inc., aradigm corporation, 3m company, mannkind corporation, microdose technologies, inc., skyepharma plc and vectura group plc. in the pegylation technology field, our competitors include dow chemical company, enzon pharmaceuticals, inc., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., neose technologies, inc., nof corporation and urigen pharmaceuticals, inc. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing pegylation technologies. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are currently no approved pulmonary insulin products in the u.s. or the eu other than exubera, but several direct competitors have development programs underway for inhaled insulin products, including alkermes, inc. in collaboration with eli lilly and company, mannkind corporation, epic pharmaceuticals (pty) ltd, abbott laboratories and baxter healthcare sa. all of these companies are working on various versions of inhaled insulin products in either a liquid or dry powder form. any of these products, if approved, could be competitive to exubera or our next-generation inhaled insulin product (ngi) candidate. some of our competitors products are in phase 3 clinical development, including alkermes inhaleable insulin product (air insulin system ) and mannkind technosphere &reg; insulin system. we believe other smaller companies are developing oral or buccal products for insulin delivery, such as biocon ltd., emisphere technologies, inc., coremed corporation and generex biotechnology corporation. inhaled insulin products also compete with approved injectable insulins, including both fast-acting and longer-acting basal insulins, as well as other treatment modalities for diabetes, including oral agents and other injectable products approved for patients with type 2 diabetes, such as amylin pharmaceuticals, inc. byetta. there are also several competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for nktr-061 (inhaled amikacin), the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. for nktr-118 (pegylated naloxol), there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd) including over-the-counter 32 table of contents laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including adolor corporation, glaxosmithkline, progenics pharmaceuticals, inc., wyeth, mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. for nktr-102 (peg-irinotecan), there are a number of approved therapies for the treatment of colorectal cancer, including eloxatin, camptosar, avastin, erbitux, vectibux, xeloda, adrucil and wellcovorin. in addition, there are a number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved chemotherapeutic agents to potentially treat colorectal cancer, including, but not limited to, products in development from bristol-myers squibb, pfizer, glaxosmithkline, antigenics, roche, novartis, cell therapeutics, neopharm, meditech research, enzon pharmaceuticals and others. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. our collaboration agreements with our partners contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes or litigation that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered product development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost calculation and allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the partnership; royalties on end product sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, cost of goods, geography, patent life and other financial metrics; and indemnity obligations for third-party intellectual property, infringement, product liability and certain other claims. from time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with our partners regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our collaboration agreements. one or more disputes may arise in the future regarding our collaborative contracts that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 33 table of contents we could be involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights. the third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, our ability, and that of our partners, to develop or commercialize, or derive revenue from, certain products or product candidates in the u.s. and abroad which could be effectively blocked. for instance, hoffman-la roche ltd, to which we license our proprietary pegylation reagent for use in the manufacture of roche mircera product, is currently the subject of a significant patent infringement lawsuit brought by amgen inc. related to roche patents for the use of mircera to treat chemotherapy anemia in the u.s. amgen has received a favorable ruling in u.s. federal district court in the state of massachusetts and the parties are currently litigating the remedy phase. it is uncertain whether roche will be prevented from marketing and selling mircera in the u.s. or whether an economic settlement with amgen will be concluded and approved by the court. although we are not a party to this lawsuit, if roche is prevented from marketing and selling mircera in the u.s., it will have a negative impact on our revenue from our license with roche. third-party claims could also result in the award of substantial damages to be paid by us or a settlement resulting in significant payments to be made by us. for instance, a settlement might require us to enter a license agreement under which we pay substantial royalties to a third party, diminishing our future economic returns from the related product. for instance, on june 30, 2006, we entered into a litigation settlement related to an intellectual property dispute with the university of alabama in huntsville pursuant to which we paid $11.0 million and agreed to pay an additional $10.0 million in equal $1.0 million installments over ten years beginning on july 1, 2007. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. costs associated with such litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered product candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the expenses generated by these activities. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. our recent restructuring efforts resulted in a reduction of approximately 110 employees, or approximately 20 percent of our regular full-time staff, and the elimination of approximately 40 open positions. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through further reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products that we would not otherwise relinquish. 34 table of contents we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. on february 8, 2008, hoyoung huh, our chief operating officer and head of the pegylation business unit, resigned from his positions with us effective february 29, 2008. we may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms a qualified replacement for dr. huh in the immediate future, if at all. though our board of directors has appointed dr. huh as a director to serve until the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders or until his successor is duly elected and qualified, we may not benefit from his service as a director to the same extent we benefited from his service as the chief operating officer and head of the pegylation business unit due to the varied duties of each position. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, regulatory, finance, marketing and distribution and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if earthquakes and other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development and manufacturing operations for bulk powder drugs, are located in the bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our pegylation technology in huntsville, alabama and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in the bay area and huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply certain products would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, power loss, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. 35 table of contents we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, we have in place a preferred share purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill. the provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefits plan which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. risks related to our securities the prices of our common stock and senior convertible debt are expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2007, based on closing bid prices on the nasdaq global select market, our stock price ranged from $5.22 to $15.24. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. in addition, as our convertible senior notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of the notes. also, interest rate fluctuations can affect the price of our convertible senior notes. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock or notes, including: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical trial or those of our competitors, including delays in product development, approval or launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to products using our technologies; announcements or terminations of collaborative relationships by us or our competitors; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; hedging activities by purchasers of our convertible senior notes; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; 36 table of contents public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; and general market conditions. our securityholders may be diluted, and the price of our securities may decrease, by the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants or by future issuances of securities. we may issue additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. furthermore, substantially all shares of common stock for which our outstanding stock options or warrants are exercisable are, once they have been purchased, eligible for immediate sale in the public market. the issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock or the exercise of stock options or warrants would dilute existing investors and could adversely affect the price of our securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short-term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $0.7 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2007. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2007. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.7 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2006. due to the recent adverse developments in the credit markets, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of our short-term investments. these investments are generally held to maturity, which is less than one year. however, if the need arose to liquidate such securities before maturity, we may experience losses on liquidation. as of december 31, 2007, we held $431.9 million of commercial debt securities, with an average time to maturity of 126 days. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. we have the ability and intent to hold our debt securities to maturity when they will be redeemed at full par value. accordingly, we consider unrealized losses to be temporary and have not recorded a provision for impairment. 59 table of contents foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consist of research and development activities outside the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the indian rupee, and therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 32 risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. we have a number of proprietary drug candidates and partnered drug candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive and highly uncertain processes. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to complete clinical studies. the start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our own financial constraints. drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of clinical development. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for drug candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. the risk of failure is increased for our drug candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to small molecules, including nktr-118, nktr-119, nktr-102, nktr-181, nktr-192 and other drug candidates currently in discovery research or preclinical development. the failure of one or more of our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even with success in preclinical testing and previously completed clinical trials, the risk of clinical failure for any drug candidate remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies have suffered significant unforeseen failures in late stage clinical studies due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy results and adverse medical events, even after achieving positive results in earlier clinical studies that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing government health authorities. while the nktr-118, nktr-102, and amikacin inhale drug candidates have each demonstrated positive results from phase 2 clinical studies, there is a substantial risk that phase 3 clinical study outcomes from these drug candidates from larger patient populations will not demonstrate positive efficacy, safety or other clinical outcomes sufficient to support regulatory filings and achieve regulatory approval. phase 3 clinical outcomes remain very unpredictable and it is possible that one or more of these phase 3 clinical studies could fail at any time due to efficacy, safety or other important clinical findings or regulatory requirements. if one or more of these drug candidates fail in phase 3 clinical studies, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 table of contents if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. drug candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive fda mandated or equivalent foreign government health authority review process for safety and efficacy. this process generally takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. the time required for completing testing and obtaining approvals is uncertain, and the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical studies, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. our partnered drugs that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we will need to raise substantial additional capital to repay the $215.0 million in convertible notes due in september 2012 and fund our planned future operations, and we may be unable to secure such capital without dilutive financing transactions. on february 29, 2012, we received $124.0 million in gross proceeds from the sale of our royalty interest in the cimzia &reg; and mircera &reg; drug products. additionally, we incurred approximately $4.5 million in transaction costs. we plan to use the proceeds from this transaction towards the repayment of our $215.0 million in convertible subordinated notes due in september 2012. we are actively pursuing other non-dilutive financing alternatives such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us or term loan arrangements. we may seek to repurchase our convertible notes through cash purchases in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions and/or a tender offer, if we can do so on attractive terms. if non-dilutive financing alternatives are not available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, in order to continue future operations as planned, we will be required to pursue dilutive equity-based financing alternatives such as the issuance of convertible debt or common stock to fund the remaining balance of the convertible notes and to provide sufficient capital to fund our future operations. the issuance of convertible notes, common stock, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our securities would dilute the percentage ownership of our current common stock security holders and could significantly lower the market value of our common stock. in addition, a financing could result in the issuance of new securities that may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. if we issue convertible notes or enter into a term loan arrangement, the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness may limit funds available for our business activities such as the continued advancement of our research and development pipeline, and such indebtedness could impose covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business. these restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens or make investments. 33 table of contents we have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. if we do not receive substantial milestone payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaborations or other arrangements, or are unable to raise additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our current level of investment in research and development. as of december 31, 2011, we had cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $414.9 million and indebtedness of approximately $239.9 million, including approximately $215.0 million in convertible subordinated notes due september 2012, $17.0 million in capital lease obligations, and $7.9 million of other liabilities. while we believe that our cash position will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous unpredictable factors, including: if and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties from our existing collaborations if the drug candidates subject to those collaborations achieve clinical, regulatory or commercial success, in particular, if the phase 3 kodiac studies being conducted by astrazeneca for nktr-118 are successful and astrazeneca files an nda with the fda and a marketing application with the european medicines agency for nktr-118, we will be entitled to $95 million in milestone payments; the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs in particular our phase 3 beacon study for nktr-102 and our planned phase 2 clinical study for nktr-181; the success, progress, timing and costs of our efforts to implement new collaborations, licenses and other transactions that increase our current net cash, such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us, term loan or other debt arrangements, and the issuance of securities; the cost, timing and outcomes of clinical studies and regulatory reviews of our proprietary drug candidates that we have licensed to our collaboration partners (e.g., nktr-118, amikacin inhale, bax 855); the outcome of the regulatory review process and commercial success of drug products for which we are entitled to receive royalties (e.g., affymax peginesatide and map pharmaceutical levadex &reg; ); the number of patients, enrollment criteria, primary and secondary endpoints, and the number of clinical studies required by the government health authorities in order to consider for approval our drug candidates and those of our collaboration partners; our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; and disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements that negatively impact our receipt of milestone payments or royalties or require us to make significant payments arising from licenses, settlements, adverse judgments or ongoing royalties. a significant multi-year capital commitment is required to advance our drug candidates through the various stages of research and development in order to generate sufficient data to enable high value collaboration partnerships with significant up-front payments or to successfully achieve regulatory approval. if sufficient capital is not available to us or is not available on commercially reasonable terms, it could require us to delay or reduce one or more of our research and development programs. if we are unable to sufficiently advance our research and development programs, it could substantially impair the value of such programs and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 table of contents the results from the expanded phase 2 clinical study for nktr-102 in women with platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer are unlikely to result in a review or an approval of a new drug application (nda) by the united states food and drug administration (fda), and the future results from this trial are difficult to predict. we expanded the nktr-102 phase 2 study by 110 patients in women with platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer that had received prior doxil &reg; therapy with the potential for us to consider an early nda submission after we evaluate these expanded study results. as of february 2012, approximately 94 of the planned 110 patients had been enrolled in the study. due to an ongoing supply shortage of doxil &reg; , we do not expect to complete full enrollment of this study. we are currently in the process of compiling and performing verification procedures on preliminary interim results from the patients. acceptance and approval of an nda by the fda almost always requires the sponsor to conduct comparative phase 3 clinical studies prior to acceptance for review or approval of an nda. as a result, acceptance for review or approval of an accelerated nda submitted to the fda based on overall response rate from our single-arm phase 2 study in platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer would be unusual and is highly unlikely. therefore we do not expect the fda to accept or approve an accelerated nda based on this phase 2 clinical study. the fda has significant discretion to determine what constitutes a high unmet medical need, what therapies should be considered available to patients regardless of which therapies are approved or typically prescribed in a particular setting, the relevance of certain efficacy end points (e.g. overall response rate, progression free survival, overall survival), and the number of patients required to be studied to demonstrate sufficient therapeutic benefit and safety profile. one or more of such judgments and determinations by the fda could impair our ability to submit an accelerated nda for platinum resistant/refractory ovarian cancer patients, and even if submitted, whether the fda would accept it for review and/or approve the nda. further, this expansion of our phase 2 study in platinum resistant/refractory ovarian cancer will necessarily change the final efficacy (e.g., overall response rates, progression-free survival, overall survival) and safety (i.e., frequency and severity of serious adverse events) results, and, accordingly, the final results in this study remain subject to substantial change and could be materially and adversely different from previously announced results. if the clinical studies for nktr-102 ovarian cancer are not successful, it could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. while we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have not been able to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, there is a risk that in the future a technique could be discovered to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid which would significantly diminish the value of this drug candidate. an important objective of our nktr-181 drug development program is to create a unique opioid molecule that does not rapidly enter a patient central nervous system and therefore has the potential to be less susceptible to abuse than alternative opioid therapies. to date, we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have been unable to convert nktr-181 into a rapidly-acting, more abusable form of opioid. in the future, an alternative chemistry technique, process or method of administration, or combination thereof, may be discovered to enable the conversion of nktr-181 into a more abusable opioid which could significantly and negatively impact the potential of nktr-181. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development capital requirements. for example, in september 2009 we entered into a license agreement with astrazeneca for nktr-118 and nktr-119 that included an upfront payment of $125.0 million. the timing of new collaboration partnerships is difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the outcomes from our clinical studies, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and 35 table of contents approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. if we are unable to find suitable partners or to negotiate collaboration arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future drug candidates or the licensing of our intellectual property, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. preliminary and interim data from our clinical studies that we announce or publish from time to time is subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the final data and may change as more patient data becomes available. from time to time, we publish preliminary or interim data from our clinical studies. preliminary data remains subject to audit confirmation and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. interim data is also subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as patient enrollment continues and more patient data becomes available. as a result, preliminary and interim data should be viewed with caution until the final data are available. material adverse changes in the final data could significantly harm our business prospects. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict. if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipate, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, patient and physician preferences, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our successful product candidates following approval by government health authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market by asserting our patents. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a drug candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such drug candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our technology on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, methods of preparation and manufacturing, and methods of use and administration. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaboration partners technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties, however the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. if a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be significantly harmed and we may be prevented from developing and selling the drug. 36 table of contents we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered drug candidate development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the collaboration; royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent life, generic competitors, bundled pricing and other factors; and indemnity obligations for intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. on september 20, 2009, we entered into a worldwide exclusive license agreement with astrazeneca for the further development and commercialization of nktr-118 and nktr-119. in addition, we have also entered into complex commercial agreements with novartis in connection with the sale of certain assets related to our pulmonary business, associated technology and intellectual property to novartis (the novartis pulmonary asset sale), which was completed on december 31, 2008. as part of the novartis pulmonary asset sale, we entered an exclusive license agreement with novartis pharma pursuant to which novartis pharma grants back to us an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free and worldwide license under certain specific patent rights and other related intellectual property rights necessary for us to satisfy certain continuing contractual obligations to third parties, including in connection with development, manufacture, sale and commercialization activities related to our partnered program for amikacin inhale with bayer. we also entered into a service agreement pursuant to which we have subcontracted to novartis certain services to be performed related to our partner program for amikacin inhale. our agreements with astrazeneca and novartis contain complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations that could result in substantial future liability and harm our financial condition if we breach any of our agreements with astrazeneca or novartis or any third party agreements impacted by these complex transactions. from time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. one or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 table of contents we could be involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our obligations to them. the third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology platform or drug candidates or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our collaboration partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and liability if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain drugs or drug candidates in the u.s. and abroad. for instance, f. hoffmann-la roche ltd, to which we license our proprietary pegylation reagent intellectual property for use in the mircera &reg; product, was a party to a significant patent infringement lawsuit brought by amgen inc. related to roche proposed marketing and sale of mircera &reg; to treat chemotherapy anemia in the u.s. in october 2008, a federal court ruled in favor of amgen, issuing a permanent injunction preventing roche from marketing or selling mircera &reg; in the u.s. roche and amgen subsequently entered into a settlement and limited license agreement which allows roche to begin selling mircera &reg; in the u.s. in july 2014. currently, the research foundation of the state university of new york (suny) seeks to recover amounts it alleges it is owed pursuant to a technology licensing contract between suny and us. suny has filed an action in the united states district court for the northern district of new york. we dispute suny claims. however, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. costs associated with such litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. third-party claims involving proprietary rights or other matters could also result in substantial settlement payments or substantial damages to be paid by us. for instance, a settlement might require us to enter a license agreement under which we would pay substantial royalties or other compensation to a third party, diminishing our future economic returns from the related drug. in october 2011, we entered into a settlement related to a trade secret and breach of contract litigation where we agreed to make an upfront payment of $2.7 million and a future contingent payment of $3.0 million if a certain drug candidate receives fda approval. in 2006, we entered into a litigation settlement related to an intellectual property dispute with the university of alabama in huntsville pursuant to which we paid $11.0 million and agreed to pay an additional $10.0 million in equal $1.0 million installments over ten years ending with the last payment due on july 1, 2016. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own greater than 120 u.s. and 420 foreign patents and a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be valid and enforceable or that patents for which we apply will issue with broad coverage, if at all. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued and, as a consequence, our patent applications may result in patents with narrow coverage that may not prevent competition from similar drugs. the scope of our patent claim coverage can be critical to our right to receive royalties from our collaboration partnerships. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. as part of the patent application process, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in 38 table of contents substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. further, an issued patent may undergo further proceedings to limit its scope so as not to provide meaningful protection and any claims that have issued, or that eventually issue, may be circumvented or otherwise invalidated. any attempt to enforce our patents or patent application rights could be time consuming and costly. an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following commercialization of related products. there are many laws, regulations and judicial decisions that dictate and otherwise influence the manner in which patent applications are filed and prosecuted and in which patents are granted and enforced. changes to these laws, regulations and judicial decisions are subject to influences outside of our control and may negatively affect our business, including our ability to obtain meaningful patent coverage or enforcement rights to any of our issued patents. new laws, regulations and judicial decisions may be retroactive in effect, potentially reducing or eliminating our ability to implement our patent-related strategies. changes to laws, regulations and judicial decisions that affect our business are often difficult or impossible to foresee, which limits our ability to adequately adapt our patent strategies to these changes. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers adherence to such cgmp regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. the results of these inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in sufficient quantities that meet applicable quality standards, it could delay clinical studies, result in reduced sales or constitute a breach of our contractual obligations, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient drug quantities meeting applicable quality standards required to support large clinical studies or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner, we risk delaying our clinical studies or those of our collaboration partners, reducing drug sales by our collaboration partners or breaching contractual obligations. as a result, we could incur substantial costs and damages, and reduce or even eliminate product or royalty revenue. in some cases, we rely on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply drug product for our clinical studies and those of our 39 table of contents collaboration partners. pharmaceutical manufacturing involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstration of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process validation, and challenges in controlling for all of these variables. we have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract manufacturers required for drug supply to support our clinical studies and the clinical studies and products of our collaboration partners. failure by us or our contract manufacturers to supply drug product in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality requirements could result in supply shortages for our clinical studies or the clinical studies and commercial activities of our collaboration partners. such failures could significantly and materially delay clinical trials and regulatory submissions or result in reduced sales, any of which could significantly harm our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. failures in device manufacturing has similar effects. for instance, we entered a service agreement with novartis pursuant to which we subcontract to novartis certain important services to be performed in relation to our partnered program for amikacin inhale with bayer healthcare llc. if our subcontractors do not dedicate adequate resources to our programs, we risk breach of our obligations to our partners. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. we have experienced repeated significant delays in starting the phase 3 clinical development program for amikacin inhale as we seek to finalize and validate the device design with a demonstrated capability to be manufactured at commercial scale. this work is ongoing and there remains significant risk in finalizing, validating, and producing the device at sufficient quantities meeting applicable quality requirements until this work is completed. drug/device combination products are particularly complex, expensive and time-consuming to develop due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient/doctor use, maintenance of clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. there continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is validated and proven. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is derived from our collaboration agreements from which we receive contract research payments, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties and manufacturing revenue. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from significant milestone payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch and the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. 40 table of contents if our partners, on which we depend to obtain regulatory approvals for and to commercialize our partnered drug candidates, are not successful, or if such collaborations fail, the development or commercialization of our partnered drug candidates may be delayed or unsuccessful. when we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a drug candidate with a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company, the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company is generally expected to: design and conduct large scale clinical studies; prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug candidate; and/or market and sell the drugs when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of risks to our business, including risks that: we may be unable to control whether, and the extent to which, our partners devote sufficient resources to the development programs or commercial marketing and sales efforts; disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; contracts with our partners may fail to provide us with significant protection, or to be effectively enforced, in the event one of our partners fails to perform; partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered products than they do to products of their own development or products in-licensed from other third parties; the timing and level of resources that our partners dedicate to the development program will affect the timing and amount of revenue we receive; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative or positive impact on our business. we have entered into collaborations in the past that have been subsequently terminated, such as our collaboration with pfizer for the development and commercialization of inhaled insulin that was terminated by pfizer in november 2007. if other collaborations are suspended or terminated, our ability to commercialize certain other proposed product candidates could also be negatively impacted. if our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of product candidates could be delayed or cancelled, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 41 table of contents if we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our products successfully. we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. to commercialize any of our drugs that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming, or enter into collaboration arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly or indirectly with our partners include: our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to use or prescribe our products; the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. if we, or our partners through our collaborations, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. to the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control. in the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunity or contract liability to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations, and any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing our costs to the extent we cannot pass on increased costs to a manufacturing customer. 42 table of contents we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. for the year ended december 31, 2011, we reported a net loss of $134.0 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop drugs utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies; effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of the beacon study and the phase 2 clinical study for nktr-181; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. if government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of payment or reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. a government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. 43 table of contents we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials. though we are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or our reliance on results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our pegylation and polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include dr. reddy laboratories ltd., enzon pharmaceuticals, inc., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing pegylation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are several competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for amikacin inhale, the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. for nktr-118, there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including subcutaneous relistor &reg; (methylnaltrexone bromide) and oral and rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including adolor corporation, progenics pharmaceuticals, inc. in collaboration with salix pharmaceuticals, ltd., mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals, alkermes, inc. and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. for nktr-102, there are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for ovarian and breast cancers including but not limited to: avastin &reg; (bevacizumab), camptosar &reg; (irinotecan), doxil &reg; (doxorubicin hcl), ellence &reg; (epirubicin), gemzar &reg; (gemcitabine), herceptin &reg; (trastuzumab), hycamtin &reg; (topotecan), iniparib, paraplatin &reg; (carboplatin), and taxol &reg; (paclitaxel). major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for these cancers include bristol-meyers squibb, eli lilly &amp; co., roche, glaxosmithkline plc, johnson and johnson, pfizer, inc., sanofi aventis, and many others. there are approved therapies for the treatment of colorectal cancer, including eloxatin &reg; (oxaliplatin), camptosar &reg; (irinotecan), avastin &reg; (bevacizumab), erbitux &reg; (cetuximab), vectibix &reg; (panitumumab), xeloda &reg; (capecitabine), adrucil &reg; (fluorouracil), and wellcovorin &reg; (leucovorin). in addition, there are a number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved chemotherapeutic 44 table of contents agents to potentially treat colorectal cancer, including, but not limited to, products in development from bristol-myers squibb company, pfizer, inc., glaxosmithkline plc, antigenics, inc., f. hoffmann-la roche ltd, novartis ag, cell therapeutics, inc., neopharm inc., meditech research ltd, alchemia limited, enzon pharmaceuticals, inc. and others. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. our decision to bear a majority or all of the clinical development costs of nktr-102 substantially increases our future capital requirements. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our 45 table of contents products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, regulatory, finance, marketing and distribution and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if earthquakes and other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and own and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; 46 table of contents prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefit plan which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. the price of our common stock is expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2011, based on closing bid prices on the nasdaq global select market, our stock price ranged from $12.53 to $4.22 per share. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. in addition, as our convertible notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of our notes. also, interest rate fluctuations can affect the price of our convertible notes. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock or notes, including: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to drug candidates and approved drugs in which we have a substantial economic interest; announcements regarding terminations or disputes under our collaboration agreements; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; hedging activities by purchasers of our convertible notes; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; and general market conditions. 47 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in securities with maturities of two years or less and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $1.7 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2011. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2011. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.6 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2010. due to the potential for continued uncertainty in the credit markets in 2012, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of our investments in marketable securities. these investments are generally held to maturity, which is less than two years. however, if the need arose to liquidate such securities before maturity, we may experience losses on liquidation. as of december 31, 2011, we held $399.6 million of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of ten months. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. based on our available cash and our expected operating cash requirements, we currently do not intend to sell these securities prior to maturity and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities before we recover the amortized cost basis. accordingly, we believe there are no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities and have not recorded any provisions for impairment. 66 table of contents foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities outside the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the indian rupee, and we therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 67 table of contentsrisk factors 34 risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. 34 table of contents new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. we have a number of proprietary drug candidates and partnered drug candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive and highly uncertain processes. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to complete clinical studies. the start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our and our partners financial constraints. drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of clinical development. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for drug candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. the risk of failure increases for our drug candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to small molecules, including naloxegol, etirinotecan pegol, nktr-181, nktr-192, nktr-171 and other drug candidates currently in discovery research or preclinical development. the failure of one or more of our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. drug candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive fda mandated or equivalent foreign government health authority review process for safety and efficacy. the time required for obtaining regulatory decisions is uncertain and difficult to predict. the fda and other u.s. and foreign health authorities have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical studies, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. further, health authorities have the discretion to analyze data using their own methodologies that may differ from those used by us or our partners which could lead such authorities to arrive at different conclusions regarding the safety or efficacy of a drug candidate. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. for example, we understand that the fda is exploring whether there is any evidence of a potential cardiovascular class effect related to opioid withdrawal associated with mu-opioid antagonists and naloxegol is a mu-opioid antagonist. although astrazeneca has completed comprehensive safety studies for naloxegol as part of the kodiac development program and the results from these studies are positive, the health authorities retain significant discretion over regulatory requirements which remain very uncertain and difficult to predict prior to obtaining approval. even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. our partnered drugs that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda 35 table of contents and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. even with success in previously completed clinical trials, the risk of clinical failure for any drug candidate remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies have suffered significant unforeseen failures in late stage clinical studies due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy or safety, even after achieving positive results in earlier clinical studies that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing government health authorities. while etirinotecan pegol, amikacin inhale, and bax 855 have each demonstrated positive results from phase 1 and 2 clinical studies, there is a substantial risk that phase 3 clinical study outcomes for these drug candidates from larger patient populations will not demonstrate positive efficacy, safety or other clinical outcomes sufficient to support regulatory filings and achieve regulatory approval. phase 3 clinical study outcomes remain very unpredictable and it is possible that one or more of these phase 3 clinical studies could fail at any time due to efficacy, safety or other important clinical findings or regulatory requirements. if one or more of these drug candidates fail in phase 3 clinical studies, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of our partner performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered drug candidate development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the collaboration; royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent life, generic competitors, bundled pricing and other factors; and indemnity obligations for intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. we are a party to certain significant agreements including an asset purchase agreement with novartis pursuant to which we sold a significant portion of our pulmonary business at the end of 2008, the worldwide exclusive license agreement with astrazeneca related to the further development and commercialization of naloxegol, and the purchase and sale agreement with rpi finance trust (rpi) related to the sale of our royalty interests in ucb cimzia &reg; and roche mircera &reg; that we completed in february 2012. each of these agreements contains complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations that 36 table of contents could result in substantial future liability and harm our financial condition if we breach any of our agreements with novartis, astrazeneca, rpi or any third party agreements impacted by these complex transactions. from time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. one or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. if we do not receive substantial milestone payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaborations or other arrangements, or are unable to raise additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our current level of investment in research and development. as of december 31, 2012, we had cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $302.2 million and indebtedness of approximately $149.0 million, including approximately $125.0 million in senior secured notes due july 2017, $14.6 million in capital lease obligations, and $9.4 million of other liabilities. in addition, at december 31, 2012, we had a $131.3 million liability related to the sale of future royalties. while this royalty obligation liability will not be settled in cash, we may be required to make a payment of up to $7.0 million in 2014 if the worldwide net sales thresholds of mircera &reg; in 2013 are not met. while we believe that our cash position will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous unpredictable factors, including: the cost, timing and outcomes of clinical studies and regulatory reviews of our proprietary drug candidates that we have licensed to our collaboration partners important examples include naloxegol that has been licensed to astrazeneca, amikacin inhale that has been licensed to bayer, and bax 855 in connection with our licensing transaction with baxter; if and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties from our existing collaborations if the drug candidates subject to those collaborations achieve clinical, regulatory or commercial success. in particular, depending on whether astrazeneca successfully submits regulatory filings with the fda and with the ema for naloxegol, we may or may not receive up to $95.0 million in milestone payments under our license agreement with astrazeneca, although astrazeneca has indicated it plans to make such filings in the third quarter of 2013 subject to astrazeneca final preparation of the registration package and a pre-nda meeting with the fda; the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs in particular our phase 3 beacon study for etirinotecan pegol and our phase 2 clinical program for nktr-181; the success, progress, timing and costs of our efforts to implement new collaborations, licenses and other transactions that increase our current net cash, such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us, term loan or other debt arrangements, and the issuance of securities; the outcome of the regulatory review process and commercial success of drug products for which we are entitled to receive royalties (e.g., map pharmaceutical levadex &reg; ); the number of patients, enrollment criteria, primary and secondary endpoints, and the number of clinical studies required by the government health authorities in order to consider for approval our drug candidates and those of our collaboration partners; our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; and disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements that negatively impact our receipt of milestone payments or royalties or require us to make significant payments arising from licenses, settlements, adverse judgments or ongoing royalties. 37 table of contents a significant multi-year capital commitment is required to advance our drug candidates through the various stages of research and development in order to generate sufficient data to enable high value collaboration partnerships with significant up-front payments or to successfully achieve regulatory approval. in the event we do not enter into any new collaboration partnerships with significant up-front payments and we choose to continue our main research and development programs, we may need to pursue financing alternatives, including dilutive equity-based financings, such as an offering of convertible debt or common stock, which would dilute the percentage ownership of our current common stockholders and could significantly lower the market value of our common stock. if sufficient capital is not available to us or is not available on commercially reasonable terms, it could require us to delay or reduce one or more of our research and development programs. if we are unable to sufficiently advance our research and development programs, it could substantially impair the value of such programs and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the results from the expanded phase 2 clinical study for etirinotecan pegol in women with platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer are unlikely to result in a review or an approval of a nda by the fda. we expanded the etirinotecan pegol phase 2 study by 110 patients in women with platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer that had received prior doxil &reg; therapy with the potential for us to consider an early nda submission after we evaluate these expanded study results. we are currently in the process of compiling and performing verification procedures on the data from this study. acceptance and approval of an nda by the fda almost always requires the sponsor to conduct comparative phase 3 clinical studies prior to acceptance for review or approval of an nda. as a result, acceptance for review or approval of an accelerated nda submitted to the fda based on overall response rate from our single-arm phase 2 study in platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer would be unusual and is highly unlikely. therefore we do not expect the fda to accept or approve a nda based on this phase 2 clinical study. the fda has significant discretion to determine what constitutes a high unmet medical need, what therapies should be considered available to patients regardless of which therapies are approved or typically prescribed in a particular setting, the relevance of certain efficacy end points (e.g. overall response rate, progression free survival, overall survival), and the number of patients required to be studied to demonstrate sufficient therapeutic benefit and safety profile. one or more of such judgments and determinations by the fda could impair our ability to submit an nda for platinum resistant/refractory ovarian cancer patients, and even if submitted, whether the fda would accept it for review or approve the nda. further, this expansion of our phase 2 clinical study in platinum resistant/refractory ovarian cancer will necessarily change the final efficacy (e.g., overall response rates, progression-free survival, overall survival) and safety (i.e., frequency and severity of serious adverse events) results, and, accordingly, the final results in this study remain subject to substantial change and could be materially and adversely different from previously announced results. if the clinical studies for etirinotecan pegol ovarian cancer are not successful, it could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. while we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have not been able to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, there is a risk that in the future a technique could be discovered to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid which would significantly diminish the value of this drug candidate. an important objective of our nktr-181 drug development program is to create a unique opioid molecule that does not rapidly enter a patient central nervous system and therefore has the potential to be less susceptible to abuse than alternative opioid therapies. to date, we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have been unable to convert nktr-181 into a rapidly-acting, more abusable form of opioid. in the future, an alternative chemistry technique, process or method of administration, 38 table of contents or combination thereof, may be discovered to enable the conversion of nktr-181 into a more abusable opioid which could significantly and negatively impact the potential of nktr-181. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development capital requirements. the timing of new collaboration partnerships is difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the outcomes from our clinical studies, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. if we are unable to find suitable partners or to negotiate collaboration arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future drug candidates or the licensing of our intellectual property, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. preliminary and interim data from our clinical studies that we announce or publish from time to time is subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the final data and may change as more patient data becomes available. from time to time, we publish preliminary or interim data from our clinical studies. for example, we have announced preliminary tumor response rate data from our expanded phase 2 clinical study for etirinotecan pegol in platinum resistant/refractory ovarian cancer. preliminary data remains subject to audit confirmation and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. interim data is also subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as patient enrollment continues and more patient data becomes available. as a result, preliminary and interim data should be viewed with caution until the final data are available. material adverse changes in the final data could significantly harm our business prospects. delays in clinical studies are common and have many causes, and any significant delay in clinical studies being conducted by us or our partners could result in delay in regulatory approvals and jeopardize the ability to proceed to commercialization. we or our partners may experience delays in clinical trials of drug candidates. etirinotecan pegol and bax 855 are currently in phase 3 clinical studies and bayer plans to advance amikacin inhale into phase 3 clinical development in march 2013. in addition, we are conducting a phase 2 study for nktr-181 that we estimate will be completed in mid-2013 and we also plan to start a human abuse liability study for nktr-181 during the first half of 2013. these and other of our planned clinical studies may not begin on time, have an effective design, enroll a sufficient number of patients or be completed on schedule, if at all. our clinical trials for any of our product candidates could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical study; delays in reaching agreement with applicable health authorities on a clinical study design; imposition of a clinical hold following an inspection of our clinical trial operations or trial sites by the fda or other health authorities; we, our partners, the fda or foreign health authorities could suspend or terminate a clinical study due to adverse side effects of a drug on subjects in the trial; delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; delays in having patients complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; clinical sites dropping out of a trial to the detriment of enrollment rates; 39 table of contents delays in manufacturing and delivery of sufficient supply of clinical trial materials; and any change in health authorities policies or guidances applicable to our drug candidates. if initiation or completion of any of the planned clinical studies are delayed for our drug candidates for any of the above reasons or otherwise, the approval process could be delayed and the ability to commercialize and commence sales of these drug candidates could be materially harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict. if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipate, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, patient and physician preferences, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our successful product candidates following approval by government health authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market by asserting our patents. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a drug candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such drug candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our drug candidates on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, methods of preparation and manufacturing, and methods of use and administration. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaboration partners technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties, however the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. if a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be prevented from developing and selling the drug, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own more than 150 u.s. and 500 foreign patents and a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be held valid and enforceable in a court of law. even for patents that are held valid and enforceable, the legal process associated with obtaining such a judgment is time consuming and costly. additionally, issued patents can be subject to opposition or other proceedings that can result in the 40 table of contents revocation of the patent or maintenance of the patent in amended form (and potentially in a form that renders the patent without commercially relevant and/or broad coverage). further, our competitors may be able to circumvent and otherwise design around our patents. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following the commercialization of a products encompassed by our patent(s). we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in a loss of the patent and/or substantial cost to us. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that the patent applications for which we apply would actually issue as a patents, or do so with commercially relevant and/or broad coverage. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. the scope of our claim coverage can be critical to our ability to enter into licensing transactions with third parties and our right to receive royalties from our collaboration partnerships. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. in addition, there is no guarantee that we will be the first to file a patent application directed to an invention. an adverse outcome in any judicial proceeding involving intellectual property, including patents, could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. in those instances where we seek an intellectual property license from another, we may not be able to obtain the license on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all, thereby raising concerns on our ability to freely commercialize our technologies and/or products. we could be involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our obligations to them. the third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology platform or drug candidates or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our collaboration partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and liability if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain drugs or drug candidates in the u.s. and abroad. currently, the research foundation of the state university of new york (suny) seeks to recover amounts it alleges it is owed pursuant to a technology licensing contract between suny and us. suny has filed an action in the united states district court for the northern district of new york. we dispute suny claims. however, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. costs associated with such litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. third-party claims involving proprietary rights or other matters could also result in substantial settlement payments or substantial damages to be paid by us. for instance, a settlement might require us to enter a license agreement under which we would pay substantial royalties or other compensation to a third party, diminishing our future economic returns from the related drug. in october 2011, we entered into a settlement related to a trade secret and breach of contract litigation where we agreed to make an upfront payment of $2.7 million and a future contingent payment of $3.0 million if a certain drug candidate receives fda approval. in 2006, we entered into a litigation settlement related to an intellectual property dispute with the university of alabama in huntsville 41 table of contents pursuant to which we paid $11.0 million and agreed to pay an additional $10.0 million in equal $1.0 million installments over ten years ending with the last payment due on july 1, 2016. in addition, from time to time, we may in the future assert claims against third parties, based on infringement of our proprietary rights or otherwise. any such claims may not ultimately be successful, and we may incur substantial costs and liabilities in pursuing them. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to laws and other governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and with laws and regulations governing manufacture and distribution of controlled substances, and are subject to inspections by the fda, dea or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers adherence to such cgmp and other laws and governmental regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. the results of these inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in sufficient quantities that meet applicable quality standards, it could delay clinical studies, result in reduced sales or constitute a breach of our contractual obligations, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient drug quantities meeting applicable quality standards required to support large clinical studies or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner, we risk delaying our clinical studies or those of our collaboration partners, reducing drug sales by our collaboration partners or breaching contractual obligations. as a result, we could incur substantial costs and damages, and reduce or even eliminate product or royalty revenue. in some cases, we rely on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply drug product for our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners. pharmaceutical manufacturing involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstration of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process validation, and challenges in controlling for all of these variables. we have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract manufacturers required for drug supply to support our clinical studies and the clinical studies and products of our collaboration partners. failure by us or our contract manufacturers to supply drug product in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality requirements could result in supply shortages for our clinical studies or the clinical studies and commercial activities of our collaboration partners. such failures could significantly and materially delay clinical trials and regulatory submissions or result in reduced sales, any of which could significantly harm our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 42 table of contents failures in device manufacturing could have similar effects. for instance, we entered a service agreement with novartis pursuant to which we subcontract to novartis certain important services to be performed in relation to our partnered program for amikacin inhale with bayer healthcare llc. if our subcontractors do not dedicate adequate resources to our programs, we risk breach of our obligations to our partners. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. we experienced repeated significant delays in starting the phase 3 clinical development program for amikacin inhale as we sought to finalize and validate the device design with a demonstrated capability to be manufactured at commercial scale. drug/device combination products are particularly complex, expensive and time-consuming to develop due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient and doctor use, maintenance of clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. there continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is validated and proven. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is derived from our collaboration agreements from which we receive contract research payments, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties and manufacturing revenue. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from significant milestone payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch and the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. if our partners, on which we depend to obtain regulatory approvals for and to commercialize our partnered drug candidates, are not successful, or if such collaborations fail, the development or commercialization of our partnered drug candidates may be delayed or unsuccessful. when we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a drug candidate with a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company, the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company is generally expected to: design and conduct large scale clinical studies; prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug candidate; and/or market and sell the drugs when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of risks to our business, including risks that: we may be unable to control whether, and the extent to which, our partners devote sufficient resources to the development programs or commercial marketing and sales efforts; 43 table of contents disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; contracts with our partners may fail to provide us with significant protection, or to be effectively enforced, in the event one of our partners fails to perform; partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered products than they do to products of their own development or products in-licensed from other third parties; the timing and level of resources that our partners dedicate to the development program will affect the timing and amount of revenue we receive; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative or positive impact on our business. we have entered into collaborations in the past that have been subsequently terminated, such as our collaboration with pfizer for the development and commercialization of inhaled insulin that was terminated by pfizer in november 2007. if other collaborations are suspended or terminated, our ability to commercialize certain other proposed product candidates could also be negatively impacted. if our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of product candidates could be delayed or cancelled, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our products successfully. we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. to commercialize any of our drugs that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming, or enter into collaboration arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly or indirectly with our partners include: our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to use or prescribe our products; the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. 44 table of contents if we, or our partners through our collaborations, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. to the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control. in the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunity or contract liability to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations, and any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing our costs to the extent we cannot pass on increased costs to a manufacturing customer. we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. for the year ended december 31, 2012, we reported a net loss of $171.9 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop drugs utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies; effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of the beacon study and the phase 2 clinical study for nktr-181; 45 table of contents receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. if government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of payment or reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. a government or third- party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials. though we are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trials, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or our reliance on results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our pegylation and polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include biogen, savient, dr. reddy laboratories ltd., enzon pharmaceuticals, inc., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof 46 table of contents corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing pegylation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are several competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for amikacin inhale, the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. for naloxegol, there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including subcutaneous relistor &reg; (methylnaltrexone bromide) and oral and rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including cubist pharmaceuticals , progenics pharmaceuticals, inc. in collaboration with salix pharmaceuticals, ltd., mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. for etirinotecan pegol, there are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for breast and ovarian cancers including but not limited to: abraxane &reg; (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension (albumin bound)), afinitor &reg; (everolimus), doxil &reg; (doxorubicin hcl), ellence &reg; (epirubicin), gemzar &reg; (gemcitabine), halaven &reg; (eribulin), herceptin &reg; (trastuzumab), hycamtin &reg; (topotecan), ixempra &reg; (ixabepilone), navelbine &reg; (vinolrebine), iniparib, paraplatin &reg; (carboplatin), taxol &reg; (paclitaxel) and taxotere &reg; (docetaxel). major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for these cancers include, but are not limited to, bristol-meyers squibb, eli lilly &amp; co., roche, glaxosmithkline plc, johnson and johnson, pfizer, inc.and sanofi aventis. there are approved therapies for the treatment of colorectal cancer, including eloxatin &reg; (oxaliplatin), camptosar &reg; (irinotecan), avastin &reg; (bevacizumab), zaltrap &reg; (ziv-afilbercept), stivarga &reg; (regorafenib), erbitux &reg; (cetuximab), vectibix &reg; (panitumumab), xeloda &reg; (capecitabine), adrucil &reg; (fluorouracil) and wellcovorin &reg; (leucovorin). in addition, there are a number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved chemotherapeutic agents to potentially treat colorectal cancer, including, but not limited to, products in development from bristol-myers squibb company, pfizer, inc., glaxosmithkline plc, antigenics, inc., f. hoffmann-la roche ltd, novartis ag, cell therapeutics, inc., neopharm inc., meditech research ltd, alchemia limited, and enzon pharmaceuticals, inc. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. 47 table of contents our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. our decision to bear a majority or all of the clinical development costs of etirinotecan pegol substantially increases our future capital requirements. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, research, regulatory and finance, and may need to attract and retain marketing and distribution experts and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if earthquakes or other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and own and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no 48 table of contents backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefit plan which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. the price of our common stock is expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2012, based on closing bid prices on the nasdaq global select market, our stock price ranged from $10.83 to $5.68 per share. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, including: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch; announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch; 49 table of contents announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to drug candidates and approved drugs in which we have a substantial economic interest; announcements regarding terminations or disputes under our collaboration agreements; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; and general market conditions. the indenture governing the senior secured notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries ability to take various actions, such as: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified capital stock or cause certain of our subsidiaries to issue preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions, redeem equity interests or subordinated indebtedness or make certain types of investments; create or incur liens; transfer, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets and issue or sell equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries; incur restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or other distributions to the company or to make intercompany loans or asset transfers; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in any business other than businesses which are the same, similar, ancillary or reasonably related to the our business as of july 11, 2012; and consummate a merger, consolidation, reorganization or business combination, or sell, assign, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains a financial maintenance covenant requiring us to maintain a $25.0 million segregated cash reserve account until july 1, 2015 to be applied to interest payments on the notes in the event of a default, subject to certain conditions. this indenture also requires us not to permit, thereafter and through the quarter ending june 30, 2017, the aggregate balance of our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at the end of any two consecutive fiscal quarters to be less than $25.0 million, subject to certain conditions. our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by many factors, including events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those requirements. our failure to comply with our debt-related obligations could result in an event of default under our other indebtedness and the acceleration of our other indebtedness, in whole or in part, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. 50 table of contents the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the senior secured notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short-term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $0.4 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2012. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2012. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $1.7 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2011. due to the potential for continued uncertainty in the credit markets in 2013, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of our investments in marketable securities. these investments are generally held to maturity, which is less than two years. however, if the need arises to liquidate such securities before maturity, we may experience losses on liquidation. as of december 31, 2012, we held $252.8 million of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of four months. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. based on our available cash and our expected operating cash requirements, we currently do not intend to sell these securities prior to maturity and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities before we recover the amortized cost basis. accordingly, we believe there are no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities and have not recorded any provisions for impairment. foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities outside the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the indian rupee, and we therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 72 table of contentsrisk factors 35 risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. we have a number of proprietary drug candidates and partnered drug candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive and highly uncertain processes. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to complete clinical studies. the start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our and our partners financial constraints. drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of preclinical and clinical development. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for drug candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. the risk of failure increases for our drug candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to small molecules, including naloxegol, etirinotecan pegol (also known as nktr-102), nktr-181, nktr-192, nktr-171 and other drug candidates currently in discovery research or preclinical development. the failure of one or more of our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. drug candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive review process for safety and efficacy by the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) and equivalent foreign government health authorities. the time required for obtaining regulatory decisions is uncertain and difficult to predict. the fda and other u.s. and foreign health authorities have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical studies, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. further, health authorities have the discretion to analyze data using their own methodologies that may differ from those used by us or our partners which could lead such authorities to arrive at different conclusions regarding the safety or efficacy of a drug candidate. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. 35 table of contents index to financial statements even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. our partnered drugs that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. if the fda requires a cardiovascular safety study for naloxegol, it could have a material adverse impact on the naloxegol program and our business prospects and financial condition. the fda is exploring whether there is any evidence of potential elevated cardiovascular risk possibly related to the class of mu-opioid antagonist drugs and naloxegol is a mu-opioid antagonist. astrazeneca completed a 52-week, long-term controlled safety trial of naloxegol as part of the phase 3 naloxegol development program. the fda general safety concern is based on data from other mu-opioid antagonist programs that may indicate increased cardiovascular risk associated with opioid withdrawal or the antagonism of the delta subtype of the opioid receptor, for which the fda has not yet made a causal connection between these mechanisms and elevated cardiovascular risk. the fda is currently planning to hold an advisory committee meeting for the purposes of reviewing the cardiovascular safety study requirements for peripheral mu-opioid receptor antagonists including naloxegol. the advisory committee meeting, which had been originally scheduled for march 10-11, 2014, is being rescheduled due to scheduling conflicts. we amended our license agreement with astrazeneca to enter into a risk sharing arrangement in the event that pre-approval or post-approval cardiovascular safety studies are required by the fda for naloxegol. the amendment provides that if the fda requires a cardiovascular safety study as a condition to approval of naloxegol and, as a result, astrazeneca terminates its agreement with us in its entirety, we would be required to repay astrazeneca the $70.0 million we received upon the fda acceptance for review of the naloxegol nda plus accrued interest at 4.5% compounded annually. if astrazeneca elects to terminate the agreement only with respect to its license agreement rights in the u.s. due to a pre-approval cardiovascular safety study, then such amount would be paid through a 50% reduction of non-u.s. royalty amounts otherwise payable to us until the aggregate amount of such royalty reduction equals the total principal amount of $70.0 million plus accumulated interest at 4.5% compounded annually. on the other hand, if the fda determines a pre-approval cardiovascular safety study of naloxegol is not required, astrazeneca is obligated to pay us an additional $35.0 million milestone payment. however, if the fda requires a post-approval cardiovascular safety study as a condition to regulatory approval, then the royalty rate payable to us from net sales of naloxegol in the u.s. by astrazeneca would be reduced by two percentage points until the aggregate amount of such royalty payment reduction is equal to a maximum of $35.0 million. even with success in previously completed clinical trials, the risk of clinical failure for any drug candidate remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies have suffered significant unforeseen failures in late stage clinical studies due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy or safety, even after achieving positive results in earlier clinical studies that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing government health authorities. while etirinotecan pegol, amikacin inhale, and bax 855 have each demonstrated positive results from earlier clinical studies, there is a substantial risk that phase 3 clinical study outcomes for these drug candidates from larger patient populations will not demonstrate positive efficacy, safety or other clinical outcomes sufficient to support regulatory filings and achieve regulatory approval. phase 3 clinical study outcomes remain very unpredictable and it is possible that one or more of these phase 3 clinical studies could fail at any time due to efficacy, safety or other important clinical findings or regulatory requirements. if one or more of these drug candidates fail in phase 3 clinical studies, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 table of contents index to financial statements we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of our partner performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered drug candidate development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the collaboration; royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent life, generic competitors, bundled pricing and other factors; and indemnity obligations for intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. we are a party to certain significant agreements, including an asset purchase agreement with novartis pursuant to which we sold a significant portion of our pulmonary business at the end of 2008, the worldwide exclusive license agreement with astrazeneca related to the further development and commercialization of naloxegol, and the purchase and sale agreement with rpi finance trust (rpi) related to the sale of our royalty interests in ucb cimzia &reg; and roche mircera &reg; that we completed in february 2012. each of these agreements contains complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations. if we breach any of our agreements with novartis, astrazeneca, rpi or any third party agreements impacted by these complex transactions, such a breach could result in substantial future liability and harm our financial condition. from time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. one or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 table of contents index to financial statements we have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. if we do not receive substantial milestone payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaborations or other arrangements, or are unable to raise additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our current level of investment in research and development. as of december 31, 2013, we had cash and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $262.0 million, of which $25.0 million was restricted in relation to our 12.0% senior secured notes, and indebtedness of approximately $160.8 million. the indebtedness includes approximately $125.0 million in senior secured notes due july 2017, but excludes our long-term liability relating to the sale of future royalties. while this royalty obligation liability will not generally be settled in cash, we expect to be required to make a cash payment of $7.0 million in 2014, as a certain performance target is not expected to be met. while we believe that our cash position will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous unpredictable factors, including: the cost, timing and outcomes of clinical studies and regulatory reviews of our proprietary drug candidates that we have licensed to our collaboration partners important examples include naloxegol that has been licensed to astrazeneca, amikacin inhale that has been licensed to bayer, and bax 855 that is being developed by baxter under an intellectual property license from us; if and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties from our existing collaborations if the drug candidates subject to those collaborations achieve clinical, regulatory or commercial success; the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs in particular our phase 3 beacon study for etirinotecan pegol and our clinical studies for nktr-181; the success, progress, timing and costs of our efforts to implement new collaborations, licenses and other transactions that increase our current net cash, such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us, term loan or other debt arrangements, and the issuance of securities; the outcome of the regulatory review process and commercial success of drug products for which we are entitled to receive royalties (e.g., naloxegol being developed by astrazeneca); the number of patients, enrollment criteria, primary and secondary endpoints, and the number of clinical studies required by the government health authorities in order to consider for approval our drug candidates and those of our collaboration partners; our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; and disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements that negatively impact our receipt of milestone payments or royalties or require us to make significant payments arising from licenses, settlements, adverse judgments or ongoing royalties. a significant multi-year capital commitment is required to advance our drug candidates through the various stages of research and development in order to generate sufficient data to enable high value collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments or to successfully achieve regulatory approval. in the event we do not enter into any new collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments and we choose to continue our later stage research and development programs, we may need to pursue financing alternatives, including dilutive equity-based financings, such as an offering of convertible debt or common stock, which would dilute the percentage ownership of our current common stockholders and could significantly lower the market value of our common stock. if sufficient capital is not available to us or is not available on commercially reasonable terms, it could require us to delay or reduce one or more of our research and development programs. if we are unable to sufficiently advance our research and development programs, it could substantially impair the value of such programs and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 38 table of contents index to financial statements while we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have not been able to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, there is a risk that in the future a technique could be discovered to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, which would significantly diminish the value of this drug candidate. an important objective of our nktr-181 drug development program is to create a unique opioid molecule that does not rapidly enter a patient central nervous system and therefore has the potential to be less susceptible to abuse than alternative opioid therapies. to date, we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have been unable to convert nktr-181 into a rapidly-acting, more abusable form of opioid. in the future, an alternative chemistry technique, process or method of administration, or combination thereof, may be discovered to enable the conversion of nktr-181 into a more abusable opioid, which could significantly and negatively impact the potential of nktr-181. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development capital requirements. the timing of new collaboration partnerships is difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the outcomes from our clinical studies, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. if we are unable to find suitable partners or to negotiate collaboration arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future drug candidates or the licensing of our intellectual property, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. preliminary and interim data from our clinical studies that we announce or publish from time to time is subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the final data and may change as more patient data becomes available. from time to time, we publish preliminary or interim data from our clinical studies. for example, we have announced preliminary topline data from our phase 2 clinical study for nktr-181. preliminary data remains subject to audit confirmation and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. interim data is also subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as patient enrollment continues and more patient data becomes available. as a result, preliminary and interim data should be viewed with caution until the final data are available. material adverse changes in the final data could significantly harm our business prospects. delays in clinical studies are common and have many causes, and any significant delay in clinical studies being conducted by us or our partners could result in delay in regulatory approvals and jeopardize the ability to proceed to commercialization. we or our partners may experience delays in clinical trials of drug candidates. etirinotecan pegol in patients with metastatic breast cancer and bax 855 are currently in phase 3 clinical studies, and bayer has initiated phase 3 clinical development of bay41-6551 with the first patient enrolled in april 2013. a phase 2 clinical study for etirinotecan pegol in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer is still open for enrollment. we are currently evaluating the recently announced results from our phase 2 efficacy clinical study for nktr-181 and are in the planning stage for a phase 3 clinical study for nktr-181 including continuing consultations with leaders in the pain clinical trial field and interactions with the fda. because it is unlikely that we will be able to identify a single cause for the nktr-181 phase 2 study not meeting its primary efficacy endpoint, there is increased risk in effectively designing a phase 3 clinical study to demonstrate the efficacy of nktr-181. these 39 table of contents index to financial statements and other of our planned clinical studies may not begin on time, have an effective design, enroll a sufficient number of patients or be completed on schedule, if at all. our clinical trials for any of our product candidates could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical study; delays in reaching agreement with applicable health authorities on a clinical study design; imposition of a clinical hold following an inspection of our clinical trial operations or trial sites by the fda or other health authorities; suspension or termination of a clinical study by us, our partners, the fda or foreign health authorities due to adverse side effects of a drug on subjects in the trial; delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; delays in having patients complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; clinical sites dropping out of a trial to the detriment of enrollment rates; delays in manufacturing and delivery of sufficient supply of clinical trial materials; and changes in health authorities policies or guidance applicable to our drug candidates. if initiation or completion of any of the planned clinical studies are delayed for our drug candidates for any of the above reasons or otherwise, the approval process could be delayed and the ability to commercialize and commence sales of these drug candidates could be materially harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict. if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipate, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, patient and physician preferences, drug scheduling status, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our successful product candidates following approval by government health authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market by asserting our patents. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a drug candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such drug candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our drug candidates on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, methods of preparation and manufacturing, and methods of use and administration. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaboration partners technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties, however the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during 40 table of contents index to financial statements long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. if a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be prevented from developing and selling the drug, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own more than 175 u.s. and 500 foreign patents and a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be held valid and enforceable in a court of law. even for patents that are held valid and enforceable, the legal process associated with obtaining such a judgment is time consuming and costly. additionally, issued patents can be subject to opposition or other proceedings that can result in the revocation of the patent or maintenance of the patent in amended form (and potentially in a form that renders the patent without commercially relevant and/or broad coverage). further, our competitors may be able to circumvent and otherwise design around our patents. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following the commercialization of products encompassed by our patents. we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in a loss of the patent and/or substantial cost to us. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that the patent applications for which we apply would actually issue as patents, or do so with commercially relevant and/or broad coverage. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. the scope of our claim coverage can be critical to our ability to enter into licensing transactions with third parties and our right to receive royalties from our collaboration partnerships. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. in addition, there is no guarantee that we will be the first to file a patent application directed to an invention. an adverse outcome in any judicial proceeding involving intellectual property, including patents, could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. in those instances where we seek an intellectual property license from another, we may not be able to obtain the license on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all, thereby raising concerns on our ability to freely commercialize our technologies or products. we are involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our obligations to them. the third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology platform or drug candidates or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our collaboration partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and liability if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, 41 table of contents index to financial statements from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain drugs or drug candidates in the u.s. and abroad. costs associated with litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. third-party claims involving proprietary rights or other matters could also result in substantial settlement payments or substantial damages to be paid by us. for instance, a settlement might require us to enter a license agreement under which we would pay substantial royalties or other compensation to a third party, diminishing our future economic returns from the related drug. in december 2013, we entered into a litigation settlement with the research foundation of the state university of new york (suny) pursuant to which we agree to the payment of a total of $12 million in future installments and certain other terms and conditions in exchange for the full release of certain breach of contract claims by suny. in october 2011, we entered into a settlement related to trade secret and breach of contract litigation where we agreed to make an upfront payment of $2.7 million and a future contingent payment of $3.0 million if a certain drug candidate receives fda approval. in 2006, we entered into a litigation settlement related to an intellectual property dispute with the university of alabama in huntsville pursuant to which we paid $11.0 million and agreed to pay an additional $10.0 million in equal $1.0 million installments over ten years ending with the last payment due on july 1, 2016. in addition, from time to time, we may in the future assert claims against third parties, based on infringement of our proprietary rights or otherwise. any such claims may not ultimately be successful, and we may incur substantial costs and liabilities in pursuing them. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to laws and other governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and with laws and regulations governing manufacture and distribution of controlled substances, and are subject to inspections by the fda, dea or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers adherence to such cgmp and other laws and governmental regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. the results of these inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in sufficient quantities that meet applicable quality standards, it could delay clinical studies, result in reduced sales or constitute a breach of our contractual obligations, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient drug quantities meeting applicable quality standards required to support large clinical studies or commercial manufacturing in a 42 table of contents index to financial statements timely manner, we risk delaying our clinical studies or those of our collaboration partners, reducing drug sales by our collaboration partners or breaching contractual obligations. as a result, we could incur substantial costs and damages, and reduce or even eliminate product or royalty revenue. in some cases, we rely on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply drug product for our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners. pharmaceutical manufacturing of drugs and devices involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstration of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process and analytical methods validations, device performance and challenges in controlling for all of these variables. we have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract manufacturers required for drug and device supply to support our clinical studies and the clinical studies and products of our collaboration partners. failure by us or our contract manufacturers to supply drug product or devices in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality requirements could result in supply shortages for our clinical studies or the clinical studies and commercial activities of our collaboration partners. such failures could significantly and materially delay clinical trials and regulatory submissions or result in reduced sales, any of which could significantly harm our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. we experienced repeated significant delays in starting the phase 3 clinical development program for amikacin inhale as we sought to finalize and validate the device design with a demonstrated capability to be manufactured at commercial scale. drug/device combination products are particularly complex, expensive and time-consuming to develop due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient and doctor use, maintenance of clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. there continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is validated and proven. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is derived from our collaboration agreements, from which we receive contract research payments, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties and manufacturing revenue. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from significant milestone payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch and the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. our past revenue generated from collaboration agreements is not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. if any of our existing or future collaboration partners fails to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture or ultimately commercialize any product candidate under our collaboration agreement, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospectus could be materially and adversely affected. 43 table of contents index to financial statements if our partners, on which we depend to obtain regulatory approvals for and to commercialize our partnered drug candidates, are not successful, or if such collaborations fail, the development or commercialization of our partnered drug candidates may be delayed or unsuccessful. when we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a drug candidate with a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company, the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company is generally expected to: design and conduct large scale clinical studies; prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug candidate; and/or market and sell the drugs when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of risks to our business, including risks that: we may be unable to control whether, and the extent to which, our partners devote sufficient resources to the development programs or commercial marketing and sales efforts; disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; contracts with our partners may fail to provide us with significant protection, or to be effectively enforced, in the event one of our partners fails to perform; partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered products than they do to products of their own development or products in-licensed from other third parties; the timing and level of resources that our partners dedicate to the development program will affect the timing and amount of revenue we receive; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative or positive impact on our business. we have entered into collaboration agreements in the past that have been subsequently terminated, such as our collaboration agreement with pfizer, inc. for the development and commercialization of inhaled insulin that was terminated by pfizer, inc. in november 2007. if other collaboration agreements are suspended or terminated, our ability to commercialize certain other proposed product candidates could also be negatively impacted. if our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of product candidates could be delayed or cancelled, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 44 table of contents index to financial statements if we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our products successfully. we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. to commercialize any of our drugs that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming, or enter into collaboration arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly or indirectly with our partners include: our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to use or prescribe our products; the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. if we, or our partners through our collaborations, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. to the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control. in the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunity or contract liability to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations. any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing our costs. we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to 45 table of contents index to financial statements protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. for the year ended december 31, 2013, we reported a net loss of $162.0 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop drugs utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies; effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of the beacon study and the clinical studies for nktr-181; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. if government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of payment or reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. a government or third- party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials. though we are ultimately responsible for the results of their 46 table of contents index to financial statements activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trials, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or our reliance on results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our pegylation and polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include biogen idec inc., savient pharmaceuticals, inc., dr. reddy laboratories ltd., enzon pharmaceuticals, inc., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing pegylation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are several competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for amikacin inhale, the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. for naloxegol, there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including subcutaneous relistor &reg; (methylnaltrexone bromide), oral amitizia (lubiprostone), and oral and rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including cubist pharmaceuticals, inc., progenics pharmaceuticals, inc. in collaboration with salix pharmaceuticals, ltd., mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals, inc., develco pharma, alkermes, inc., glaxosmithkline plc, theravance, inc., and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. for etirinotecan pegol, there are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for breast and ovarian cancers, including, but not limited to: abraxane &reg; (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension (albumin bound)), afinitor &reg; (everolimus), doxil &reg; (doxorubicin hcl), ellence &reg; (epirubicin), gemzar &reg; (gemcitabine), halaven &reg; (eribulin), herceptin &reg; (trastuzumab), hycamtin &reg; (topotecan), ixempra &reg; (ixabepilone), navelbine &reg; (vinolrebine), iniparib, paraplatin &reg; (carboplatin), taxol &reg; (paclitaxel) and taxotere &reg; (docetaxel). major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for these cancers include, but are not limited to, bristol-meyers squibb company, eli lilly &amp; co., roche, glaxosmithkline plc, johnson and johnson, pfizer, inc. eisai, inc., and sanofi aventis s.a. there are approved therapies for the treatment of colorectal cancer, including eloxatin &reg; (oxaliplatin), camptosar &reg; (irinotecan), avastin &reg; (bevacizumab), zaltrap &reg; (ziv-afilbercept), stivarga &reg; (regorafenib), erbitux &reg; (cetuximab), vectibix &reg; (panitumumab), xeloda &reg; (capecitabine), adrucil &reg; (fluorouracil) and wellcovorin &reg; (leucovorin). in addition, there are a number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved chemotherapeutic agents to potentially treat colorectal cancer, including, but not limited to, products in development from bristol-myers squibb company, pfizer, inc., glaxosmithkline plc, antigenics, inc., f. hoffmann-la roche ltd, novartis ag, cell therapeutics, inc., neopharm inc., meditech research ltd, alchemia limited, and enzon pharmaceuticals, inc. 47 table of contents index to financial statements there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. our decision to bear a majority or all of the clinical development costs of etirinotecan pegol substantially increases our future capital requirements. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. 48 table of contents index to financial statements because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, research, regulatory and finance, and may need to attract and retain marketing and distribution experts and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if earthquakes or other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and own and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. 49 table of contents index to financial statements further, provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then-current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefit plan, which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. the price of our common stock is expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2013, based on closing prices on the nasdaq global select market, our stock price ranged from $13.96 to $7.54 per share. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, including: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to drug candidates and approved drugs in which we have a substantial economic interest; announcements regarding terminations or disputes under our collaboration agreements; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; our financing needs and activities; and general market conditions. the indenture governing the senior secured notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries ability to take various actions, such as: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified capital stock or cause certain of our subsidiaries to issue preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions, redeem equity interests or subordinated indebtedness or make certain types of investments; create or incur liens; transfer, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets and issue or sell equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries; 50 table of contents index to financial statements incur restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or other distributions to the company or to make intercompany loans or asset transfers; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in any business other than businesses which are the same, similar, ancillary or reasonably related to our business as of july 11, 2012; and consummate a merger, consolidation, reorganization or business combination, or sell, assign, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains a financial maintenance covenant requiring us to maintain a $25.0 million segregated cash reserve account until july 1, 2015 to be applied to interest payments on the notes in the event of a default, subject to certain conditions. this indenture also requires us not to permit, thereafter and through the quarter ending june 30, 2017, the aggregate balance of our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at the end of any two consecutive fiscal quarters to be less than $25.0 million, subject to certain conditions. our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by many factors, including events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those requirements. our failure to comply with our debt-related obligations could result in an event of default under our other indebtedness and the acceleration of our other indebtedness, in whole or in part, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the senior secured notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short-term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $0.5 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2013. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2013. actual results may 70 table of contents index to financial statements differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.4 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2012. due to the potential for continued uncertainty in the credit markets in 2014, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of our investments in marketable securities. these investments are generally held to maturity, which is less than two years. however, if the need arises to liquidate such securities before maturity, we may experience losses on liquidation. as of december 31, 2013, we held $198.0 million of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of five months. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. based on our available cash and our expected operating cash requirements, we currently do not intend to sell these securities prior to maturity and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities before we recover the amortized cost basis. accordingly, we believe there are no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities and have not recorded any provisions for impairment. foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities outside the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the indian rupee, and we therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 71 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors 33 risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, 33 table of contents you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. we have a number of proprietary drug candidates and partnered drug candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive and highly uncertain processes. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to complete clinical studies. the start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our and our partners financial constraints. drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of preclinical and clinical development. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for drug candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. the risk of failure increases for our drug candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to etirinotecan pegol, nktr-181, nktr-171, nktr-214 and other drug candidates currently in discovery research or preclinical development. for example, while we recently started a phase 3 clinical program for nktr-181 which we believe employs the most appropriate clinical trial design, we were unable to identify a single cause for the phase 2 study for nktr-181 not meeting its primary efficacy endpoint, and therefore there is increased risk in effectively designing a phase 3 clinical program for nktr-181. the failure of one or more of our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even with success in previously completed clinical trials, the risk of clinical failure for any drug candidate remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies have suffered significant unforeseen failures in late stage (i.e. phase 3) clinical studies due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy or safety, even after achieving positive results in earlier clinical studies that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing government health authorities. while etirinotecan pegol and amikacin inhale have each demonstrated positive results from earlier clinical studies, there is a substantial risk that phase 3 clinical study outcomes for these drug candidates from larger patient populations will not demonstrate positive efficacy, safety or other clinical outcomes sufficient to support regulatory filings and achieve regulatory approval. phase 3 clinical study outcomes remain very unpredictable and it is possible that one or more of these phase 3 clinical studies could fail at any time due to efficacy, safety or other important clinical findings or regulatory requirements. if one or more of these drug candidates fail in phase 3 clinical studies, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our results of operations and financial condition depend significantly on the ability of our collaboration partners to successfully develop and market drugs and they may fail to do so. when we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a drug candidate with a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company, the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company is generally expected to: design and conduct large scale clinical studies; prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug candidate; and/or 34 table of contents market and sell the drugs when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of significant risks to our business, including risks that: we have very little control over the timing and level of resources that our collaboration partners dedicate to commercial marketing efforts such as the amount of investment in sales and marketing personnel, general marketing campaigns, direct-to-consumer advertising (where appropriate), product sampling, pricing agreements and rebate strategies with government and private payers, manufacturing and supply of drug product, and other marketing and selling activities that need to be undertaken and well executed for a drug to have the potential to achieve commercial success; collaboration partners with commercial rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered drugs than they devote to their own drugs or other drugs that they have in-licensed; we have very little control over the timing and amount of resources our partners devote to development programs in one or more major markets; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future collaboration partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative or positive impact on our business in particular, we expect the commercial outcomes of movantik , and if approved, bax 855, to have a particularly significant impact on our near to mid- term financial results and financial condition. if our collaboration arrangements underperform or fail, our drug development efforts for our proprietary drug candidate pipeline could be delayed or reduced unless we can secure capital funding from other sources. if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital resources to advance our drug candidate pipeline, it would negatively impact the value of our business, results of operations and financial condition. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict. if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipate, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, patient and physician preferences, drug scheduling status, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our successful product candidates following approval by government health authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market by asserting our patents. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a drug candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such drug candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 35 table of contents we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of our partner performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered drug candidate development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the collaboration; royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent life, generic competitors, bundled pricing and other factors; and indemnity obligations for intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. we are a party to certain significant agreements, including an asset purchase agreement with novartis pursuant to which we sold a significant portion of our pulmonary business at the end of 2008, the worldwide exclusive license agreement with astrazeneca related to the further development and commercialization of movantik tm , and the purchase and sale agreement with rpi finance trust (rpi) related to the sale of our royalty interests in ucb cimzia &reg; and roche mircera &reg; that we completed in february 2012. each of these agreements contains complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations. if we breach any of our agreements with novartis, astrazeneca, rpi or any other third party agreements, it could subject us to substantial liabilities and harm our financial condition. from time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. for example, on january 23, 2015, we filed a lawsuit against allergan and map seeking economic damages related to a dispute over the economic sharing provisions of our license agreement with map. one or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. drug candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive review process for safety and efficacy by the fda and equivalent foreign government health authorities. the time required for obtaining regulatory decisions is uncertain and difficult to predict. the fda and other u.s. and foreign health authorities have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical studies, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. further, health authorities have the discretion to analyze data using their own methodologies that may differ from those used by us or our partners which could lead such authorities to arrive at different conclusions regarding the safety or efficacy of a drug candidate. in addition, 36 table of contents undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. for example, astrazeneca will be conducting a post-marketing, observational epidemiological study comparing movantik tm to other treatments of oic in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain and the results of this study could at some point in the future negatively impact the labeling, regulatory status, and commercial potential of movantik tm . even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. our partnered drugs that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. if we do not receive substantial milestone or royalty payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaborations or other arrangements, or are unable to raise additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our current level of investment in research and development. as of december 31, 2014, we had cash and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $262.8 million, of which $25.0 million was restricted in relation to our 12.0% senior secured notes, and indebtedness of approximately $151.8 million. the indebtedness includes approximately $125.0 million in senior secured notes due july 2017, but excludes our long-term liability relating to the sale of future royalties as this royalty obligation liability will not be settled in cash. while we believe that our cash position will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous unpredictable factors, including: the cost, timing and outcomes of clinical studies and regulatory reviews of our proprietary drug candidates that we have licensed to our collaboration partners important examples include amikacin inhale and cipro inhale licensed to bayer, and bax 855 that is being developed by baxter; the commercial launch and sales levels of products marketed by our collaboration partners for which we are entitled to royalties and sales milestones importantly, astrazeneca level of success in marketing and selling movantik ; if and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties from our existing collaborations if the drug candidates subject to those collaborations achieve clinical, regulatory or commercial success; the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs in particular our phase 3 beacon study for etirinotecan pegol for which we expect to have topline results in march 2015 and our phase 3 clinical program for nktr-181; the success, progress, timing and costs of our efforts to implement new collaborations, licenses and other transactions that increase our current net cash, such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us, term loan or other debt arrangements, and the issuance of securities; the number of patients, enrollment criteria, primary and secondary endpoints, and the number of clinical studies required by the government health authorities in order to consider for approval our drug candidates and those of our collaboration partners; our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; and disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements that negatively impact our receipt of milestone payments or royalties or require us to make significant payments arising from licenses, settlements, adverse judgments or ongoing royalties. 37 table of contents a significant multi-year capital commitment is required to advance our drug candidates through the various stages of research and development in order to generate sufficient data to enable high value collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments or to successfully achieve regulatory approval. in the event we do not enter into any new collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments and we choose to continue our later stage research and development programs, we may need to pursue financing alternatives, including dilutive equity-based financings, such as an offering of convertible debt or common stock, which would dilute the percentage ownership of our current common stockholders and could significantly lower the market value of our common stock. if sufficient capital is not available to us or is not available on commercially reasonable terms, it could require us to delay or reduce one or more of our research and development programs. if we are unable to sufficiently advance our research and development programs, it could substantially impair the value of such programs and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have not been able to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, there is a risk that a technique could be discovered in the future to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, which would significantly diminish the value of this drug candidate. an important objective of our nktr-181 drug development program is to create a unique opioid molecule that does not rapidly enter a patient central nervous system and therefore has the potential to be less susceptible to abuse than alternative opioid therapies. to date, we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have been unable to convert nktr-181 into a rapidly-acting, more abusable form of opioid. in the future, an alternative chemistry technique, process or method of administration, or combination thereof, may be discovered to enable the conversion of nktr-181 into a more abusable opioid, which could significantly and negatively impact the commercial potential or diminish the value of nktr-181. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development capital requirements. the timing of new collaboration partnerships is difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the outcomes from our clinical studies, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. if we are unable to find suitable partners or negotiate collaboration arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future drug candidates or the licensing of our intellectual property, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. preliminary and interim data from our clinical studies that we announce or publish from time to time are subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the final data and may change as more patient data become available. from time to time, we publish preliminary or interim data from our clinical studies. preliminary data remain subject to audit confirmation and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. interim data are also subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as patient enrollment continues and more patient data become available. as a result, preliminary and interim data should be viewed with caution until the final data are available. material adverse changes in the final data could significantly harm our business prospects. 38 table of contents delays in clinical studies are common and have many causes, and any significant delay in clinical studies being conducted by us or our partners could result in delay in regulatory approvals and jeopardize the ability to proceed to commercialization. we or our partners may experience delays in clinical trials of drug candidates. we currently have ongoing phase 3 studies for etirinotecan pegol in patients with metastatic breast cancer and nktr-181 in patients with chronic lower back pain. in addition, our collaboration partners have several ongoing phase 3 clinical programs including baxter for bax 855, bayer for amikacin inhale and cipro inhale, and ophthotech for fovista . these and other clinical studies may not begin on time, enroll a sufficient number of patients or be completed on schedule, if at all. our clinical trials for any of our product candidates could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical study; delays in reaching agreement with applicable health authorities on a clinical study design; imposition of a clinical hold following an inspection of our clinical trial operations or trial sites by the fda or other health authorities; suspension or termination of a clinical study by us, our partners, the fda or foreign health authorities due to adverse side effects of a drug on subjects in the trial; delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; delays in having patients complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; clinical sites dropping out of a trial to the detriment of enrollment rates; delays in manufacturing and delivery of sufficient supply of clinical trial materials; and changes in health authorities policies or guidance applicable to our drug candidates. if the initiation or completion of any of the planned clinical studies for our drug candidates is delayed for any of the above or other reasons, the regulatory approval process would be delayed and the ability to commercialize and commence sales of these drug candidates could be materially harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our drug candidates on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, methods of preparation and manufacturing, and methods of use and administration. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaboration partners technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties; however, the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. if a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be prevented from developing and selling the drug, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 39 table of contents if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own more than 215 u.s. and 750 foreign patents and a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be held valid and enforceable in a court of law. even for patents that are held valid and enforceable, the legal process associated with obtaining such a judgment is time consuming and costly. additionally, issued patents can be subject to opposition or other proceedings that can result in the revocation of the patent or maintenance of the patent in amended form (and potentially in a form that renders the patent without commercially relevant and/or broad coverage). further, our competitors may be able to circumvent and otherwise design around our patents. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following the commercialization of products encompassed by our patents. we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in a loss of the patent and/or substantial cost to us. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that the patent applications for which we apply would actually issue as patents, or do so with commercially relevant and/or broad coverage. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. the scope of our claim coverage can be critical to our ability to enter into licensing transactions with third parties and our right to receive royalties from our collaboration partnerships. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. in addition, there is no guarantee that we will be the first to file a patent application directed to an invention. an adverse outcome in any judicial proceeding involving intellectual property, including patents, could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. in those instances where we seek an intellectual property license from another, we may not be able to obtain the license on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all, thereby raising concerns on our ability to freely commercialize our technologies or products. we are involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our obligations to them. the third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology platform or drug candidates or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our collaboration partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and liability if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain drugs or drug candidates in the u.s. and abroad. costs associated with litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 table of contents third-party claims involving proprietary rights or other matters could also result in substantial settlement payments or substantial damages to be paid by us. for instance, a settlement might require us to enter a license agreement under which we would pay substantial royalties or other compensation to a third party, diminishing our future economic returns from the related drug. in december 2013, we entered into a litigation settlement with the research foundation of the state university of new york (suny) pursuant to which we agree to the payment of a total of $12.0 million in future installments and certain other terms and conditions in exchange for the full release of certain breach of contract claims by suny. in addition, from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings where we or other third parties are enforcing or seeking intellectual property rights, invalidating or limiting patent rights that have already been allowed or issued, or otherwise asserting proprietary rights through one or more potential legal remedies. for example, we are currently involved in a german litigation proceeding whereby bayer is seeking co-ownership rights in certain of our patent filings pending at the european patent office covering (among other things) pegylated factor viii which we have exclusively licensed to baxter. the subject matter of our patent filings in this proceeding relates to bayer investigational pegylated recombinant factor viii compound. we believe that bayer claim to an ownership interest in these patent filings is without merit and are vigorously defending sole and exclusive ownership rights to this intellectual property. we are also regularly involved in opposition proceedings at the european patent office where third parties seek to invalidate or limit the scope of our allowed european patents applications covering (among other things) our drugs and platform technologies. the cost to us in initiating or defending any litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation would divert our management attention. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could delay our research and development efforts or result in financial implications either in terms of seeking license arrangements or payment of damages or royalties. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to laws and other governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and with laws and regulations governing manufacture and distribution of controlled substances, and are subject to inspections by the fda, the drug enforcement administration or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions administering such compliance. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers adherence to such cgmp and other laws and governmental regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. the results of these inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 41 table of contents if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in sufficient quantities that meet applicable quality standards, it could delay clinical studies, result in reduced sales or constitute a breach of our contractual obligations, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient drug quantities meeting applicable quality standards required to support large clinical studies or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner, it could delay our or our collaboration partners clinical studies or result in a breach of our contractual obligations, which could in turn reduce the potential commercial sales of our or our collaboration partners products. as a result, we could incur substantial costs and damages and any product sales or royalty revenue that we would otherwise be entitled to receive could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. in some cases, we rely on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply drug product for our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners. pharmaceutical manufacturing of drugs and devices involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstration of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process and analytical methods validations, device performance and challenges in controlling for all of these variables. we have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract manufacturers required for drug and device supply to support our clinical studies and the clinical studies and products of our collaboration partners. failure by us or our contract manufacturers to supply drug product or devices in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality requirements could result in supply shortages for our clinical studies or the clinical studies and commercial activities of our collaboration partners. such failures could significantly and materially delay clinical trials and regulatory submissions or result in reduced sales, any of which could significantly harm our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. we experienced repeated significant delays in starting the phase 3 clinical development program for amikacin inhale as we sought to finalize and validate the device design with a demonstrated capability to be manufactured at commercial scale. drug/device combination products are particularly complex, expensive and time-consuming to develop due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient and doctor use, maintenance of clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. there continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is validated and proven. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, from which we receive contract research payments, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties and manufacturing revenue. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from significant milestone payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch and the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. our past revenue generated from collaboration agreements is not necessarily 42 table of contents indicative of our future revenue. if any of our existing or future collaboration partners fails to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture or ultimately commercialize any product candidate under our collaboration agreement, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospectus could be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our products successfully. we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. to commercialize any of our drugs that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming, or enter into collaboration arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly or indirectly with our partners include: our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to use or prescribe our products; the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. if we, or our partners through our collaborations, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. to the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control important examples of this risk include movantik partnered with astrazeneca and bax 855 partnered with baxter. in the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunity or contract liability to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations. any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing our costs. 43 table of contents we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. for the year ended december 31, 2014, we reported a net loss of $53.9 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop drugs utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies; effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of the beacon study and the clinical studies for nktr-181; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. if government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of payment or reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. a government or third- party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. 44 table of contents we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials. though we are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trials, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or our reliance on results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our pegylation and polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include biogen idec inc., savient pharmaceuticals, inc., dr. reddy laboratories ltd., enzon pharmaceuticals, inc., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing pegylation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are several competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for amikacin inhale, the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. for movantik tm , there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including relistor &reg; (methylnaltrexone bromide) subcutaneous injection, oral amitizia (lubiprostone), and oral and rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including cubist pharmaceuticals, inc., progenics pharmaceuticals, inc. in collaboration with salix pharmaceuticals, ltd., mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals, inc., develco pharma gmbh, alkermes, inc., glaxosmithkline plc, theravance, inc., and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. for etirinotecan pegol, there are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for breast and ovarian cancers, including, but not limited to: abraxane &reg; (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension (albumin bound)), xeloda &reg; (capecitabine), afinitor &reg; (everolimus), doxil &reg; (doxorubicin hcl), ellence &reg; (epirubicin), gemzar &reg; (gemcitabine), halaven &reg; (eribulin), herceptin &reg; (trastuzumab), hycamtin &reg; (topotecan), ibrance &reg; (palbociclib), ixempra &reg; (ixabepilone), navelbine &reg; (vinolrebine), iniparib, paraplatin &reg; (carboplatin), taxol &reg; (paclitaxel) and taxotere &reg; (docetaxel). major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for these cancers include, but are not limited to, bristol-meyers squibb company, eli lilly &amp; co., roche, glaxosmithkline plc, johnson and johnson, pfizer, inc. eisai, inc., and sanofi aventis s.a. there are approved therapies for the treatment of colorectal cancer, including eloxatin &reg; (oxaliplatin), 45 table of contents camptosar &reg; (irinotecan), avastin &reg; (bevacizumab), zaltrap &reg; (ziv-afilbercept), stivarga &reg; (regorafenib), erbitux &reg; (cetuximab), vectibix &reg; (panitumumab), xeloda &reg; (capecitabine), adrucil &reg; (fluorouracil) and wellcovorin &reg; (leucovorin). in addition, there are a number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved chemotherapeutic agents to potentially treat colorectal cancer, including, but not limited to, products in development from bristol-myers squibb company, pfizer, inc., glaxosmithkline plc, antigenics, inc., f. hoffmann-la roche ltd., novartis ag, cell therapeutics, inc., neopharm inc. (acquired by insys therapeutics, inc.), meditech research ltd, alchemia limited, and enzon pharmaceuticals, inc. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. our decision to bear a majority or all of the clinical development costs of etirinotecan pegol substantially increases our future capital requirements. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated 46 table of contents within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, research, regulatory and finance, and may need to attract and retain marketing and distribution experts and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if earthquakes or other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and own and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; 47 table of contents the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then-current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefit plan, which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. the price of our common stock is expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2014, based on closing prices on the nasdaq global select market, our stock price ranged from $10.53 to $17.05 per share. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, including the risks described in this section titled risk factors and the following: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to drug candidates and approved drugs in which we have a substantial economic interest; announcements regarding terminations or disputes under our collaboration agreements; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; our financing needs and activities; and general market conditions. at times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments. the stock prices of biotechnology companies and securities markets generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years. 48 table of contents the indenture governing the senior secured notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries ability to take various actions, such as: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified capital stock or cause certain of our subsidiaries to issue preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions, redeem equity interests or subordinated indebtedness or make certain types of investments; create or incur liens; transfer, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets and issue or sell equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries; incur restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or other distributions to the company or to make intercompany loans or asset transfers; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in any business other than businesses which are the same, similar, ancillary or reasonably related to our business as of july 11, 2012; and consummate a merger, consolidation, reorganization or business combination, or sell, assign, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains a financial maintenance covenant requiring us to maintain a $25.0 million segregated cash reserve account until july 1, 2015 to be applied to interest payments on the senior secured notes in the event of a default, subject to certain conditions. this indenture also requires us not to permit, thereafter and through the quarter ending june 30, 2017, the aggregate balance of our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at the end of any two consecutive fiscal quarters to be less than $25.0 million, subject to certain conditions. our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by many factors, including events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those requirements. our failure to comply with our debt-related obligations could result in an event of default under our other indebtedness and the acceleration of our other indebtedness, in whole or in part, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the senior secured notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68risk factors 22 risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. risks related to our business drug development is an inherently uncertain process and there is a high risk of failure at every stage of development and development failures can significantly harm our business. we have a number of proprietary product candidates and partnered product candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and a highly uncertain processes. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to complete clinical trials. drug development is an uncertain scientific and medical endeavor and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of clinical development. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. even with success in preclinical testing and clinical trials, the risk of clinical failure remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant unforeseen setbacks in later stage clinical trials (i.e., phase 2 or phase 3 trials) due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy results and adverse medical events, even after achieving positive results in earlier trials that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing regulatory agencies. although we recently announced positive preliminary phase 2 clinical results for nktr-118 (oral pegylated naloxol), there are still substantial risks associated with the future outcome of a phase 3 clinical trial and the regulatory review process. in addition, although nktr-102 (pegylated irinotecan) continues in active phase 2 clinical development, there remains a significant uncertainty that this drug candidate will eventually receive regulatory approval or this drug candidate will be a commercial success even if approved. the risk of failure is increased for our product candidates that are based on new technologies such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to small molecules including without limitation nktr-118 and nktr-102. if our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies fail to generate new drug candidates with positive clinical trial results and approved drugs, our business would be materially harmed. 22 table of contents if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development expenses and develop and commercialize our product candidates. for example, following the recent announcement of our preliminary phase 2 clinical results for oral nktr-118 (oral pegylated naloxol), we will be actively seeking a collaboration partner for this program. our ability to successfully conclude a collaboration partnership for oral nktr-118 on commercially favorable terms, or at all, will have a significant impact on our business and financial position in 2009. the timing of any future partnership, as well as the terms and conditions of the partnership, will affect our ability to benefit from the relationship. if we are unable to fund suitable partners or to negotiate collaborative arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future product candidates or the licensing of our technology, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. while we may enter new collaboration or license agreements in 2009, we currently expect revenue to decrease in 2009 as a result of the termination of our collaboration agreements with novartis vaccines and diagnostics, inc. for tobramycin inhalation powder (tip) and our assignment of our rights and obligations, other than certain royalty rights, related to the cipro inhale program partnered with schering pharma ag. revenue from the tip and cipro inhale collaboration agreements was $13.7 million and $11.7 million, or 15% and 13%, respectively for the year ended december 31, 2008. we will not receive any revenue related to these programs in 2009. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict and if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement, patient and physician preferences and the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a product candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such product candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestones could be significantly diminished and would negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is derived from our collaboration agreements with partners, under which we may receive contract research payments, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties or manufacturing revenue. bayer (including bayer healthcare llc and bayer schering pharma ag), ucb pharma, novartis, and roche represented 24%, 16%, 15%, and 14%, respectively, of our total revenue during the year ended december 31, 2008. no other partner accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue during the year ended december 31, 2008. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from the nature of significant milestone payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical, regulatory or sales events which result in single milestone payments and the timing and success of the commercial launch of new drugs by our collaboration partners. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our partner achieve clinical and sales milestones, whether the partnership is exclusive or whether we can seek other partners, the timing of regulatory approvals and the market introduction of new drugs, as well as other factors. 23 table of contents if our partners, on which we depend to obtain regulatory approvals for and to commercialize our partnered products, are not successful, or if such collaborations fail, the development or commercialization of our partnered products may be delayed or unsuccessful. when we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a product candidate with a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company, the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company is generally expected to: design and conduct large scale clinical studies; prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given product candidate; and/or market and sell our products when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of risks to our business, including risks that: we may be unable to control whether, and the extent to which, our partners devote sufficient resources to the development programs or commercial efforts; disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration; contracts with our partners may fail to provide us with significant protection, or to be effectively enforced, in the event one of our partners fails to perform; partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered products than they do to products of their own development; the timing and level of resources that our partners dedicate to the development program will affect the timing and amount of revenue we receive; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future partnerships is highly uncertain. we have entered into collaborations in the past that have been subsequently terminated, such as our collaboration with pfizer for the development and commercialization of inhaled insulin that was terminated by pfizer in november 2007. if other collaborations are suspended or terminated, our ability to commercialize certain other proposed product candidates could also be negatively impacted. if our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of product candidates could be delayed or cancelled, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for product candidates on a timely basis, if at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. product candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive fda mandated or equivalent foreign authorities review process for safety and efficacy. this process generally takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. the time required for completing testing and obtaining approvals is uncertain, and the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. our partnered products that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 24 table of contents we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements, including in connection with the novartis pulmonary asset sale, which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered product development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the partnership; royalties on end product sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, patent life and other financial metrics; and indemnity obligations for third-party intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. in addition, we have also entered into complex commercial agreements with novartis in connection with the sale of certain assets related to our pulmonary business, associated technology and intellectual property to novartis (novartis pulmonary asset sale), which was completed on december 31, 2008. our agreements with novartis contain complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations that could result in substantial future liability and harm our financial condition if we breach any of our agreements with novartis or any third party agreements impacted by this complex transaction. in addition to the asset purchase, we entered an exclusive license agreement with novartis pharma pursuant to which novartis pharma grants back to us an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free and worldwide license under certain specific patent rights and other related intellectual property rights necessary for us to satisfy certain continuing contractual obligations to third parties, including in connection with development, manufacture, sale and commercialization activities related to our partnered program for bay41-6551 with bayer healthcare llc . we also entered into a service agreement pursuant to which we have subcontracted to novartis certain services to be performed related to our partnered program for bay41-6551 and a transition services agreement pursuant to which novartis and we will provide each other with specified services for limited time periods following the closing of the novartis pulmonary asset sale to facilitate the transition of the acquired assets and business from us to novartis. from time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. one or more disputes may arise in the future regarding our collaborative contracts or the novartis pulmonary asset purchase that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. if we or our partners are not able to manufacture drugs in quantities and at costs that are commercially feasible, our proprietary and partnered product candidates may experience clinical delays or constrain commercial supply which could significantly harm our business. if we are not able to scale-up manufacturing to meet the drug quantities required to support large clinical trials or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, we risk delaying our clinical trials or those of our partners and may breach contractual obligations and incur associated damages and costs. in some cases, we may subcontract manufacturing or other services. for instance, we entered a service agreement with novartis pursuant to which we subcontract to novartis certain important services to be performed in relation to our partnered program for bay41-6551 with bayer healthcare llc. if our subcontractors do not dedicate adequate resources to our programs, we risk breach of our obligations to our partners. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. failure to manufacture products in quantities or at costs that are commercially feasible could cause us not to meet our supply requirements, contractual obligations or other requirements for our proprietary product candidates and, as a result, would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 25 table of contents we purchase some of the raw starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunity or contract liability to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations, and any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing operating loss to the extent we cannot pass on increased costs to a manufacturing customer. the current crisis in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. financial markets have experienced extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations. there could be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. while we do not currently require access to credit markets to finance our operations, these economic developments are likely to affect our business in various ways. the current tightening of credit in financial markets may harm the ability of our partners to finance operations and they may dedicate fewer resources to our partnered product candidates, which could result in delays in the regulatory approval process and increase the estimated time to commercialization of our product candidates. since we expect that licensing deals, comprised of a combination of upfront and contract research fees, milestones, manufacturing product sales and product royalties, will represent the majority of our revenue in 2009, such delays could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. further, our partners may be unable to continue to develop our partnered product candidates, and some partners may terminate our collaborations. in addition, to date all of our revenue has come from payments from partners, and it may become more difficult to collect any payments due from our partners on a timely basis, or at all. the economic crisis may also affect the ability of suppliers of starting materials to meet our capacity requirements or cause them to increase the price of starting materials. we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the u.s. and other countries. as a result of the worldwide economic slowdown, it is extremely difficult for us and our partners to forecast future sales levels based on historical information and trends. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own approximately 80 u.s. and approximately 335 foreign patents and a number of patent applications pending that cover various aspects of our technologies. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be valid and enforceable or that patents for which we apply will issue with broad coverage, if at all. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued and, as a consequence, our patent applications may result in patents with narrow coverage. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lag behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. as part of the patent application process, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. further, an issued patent may undergo further proceedings to limit its scope so as not to provide meaningful protection and any claims that have issued, or that eventually issue, may be circumvented or otherwise invalidated. any attempt to enforce our patents or patent application rights could be time consuming and costly. an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following commercialization of related products. there are many laws, regulations and judicial decisions that dictate and otherwise influence the manner in which patent applications are filed and prosecuted and in which patents are granted and enforced. changes to these laws, regulations and judicial decisions are subject to influences outside of our control and may negatively affect our business, including our ability to obtain meaningful patent coverage or enforcement rights to any of our issued patents. new laws, regulations and judicial decisions may be retroactive in effect, potentially reducing or eliminating our ability to implement our patent-related strategies to these changes. changes to laws, regulations and judicial decisions that affect our business are often difficult or impossible to foresee, which limits our ability to adequately adapt our patent strategies to these changes. 26 table of contents we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our technology on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, medical devices and equipment and methods for preparation, packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical compositions. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaborative partners technology by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. the failure to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, if needed, would have a material adverse effect on us. we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. in the year ended december 31, 2008, we reported net losses of $34.3 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone payments and license fees received, the timing of revenue under collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop products utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. 27 table of contents if we do not generate sufficient cash flow through increased revenue or raising additional capital, we may not be able to meet our substantial debt obligations. as of december 31, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $379.0 million and approximately $242.6 million of indebtedness, including approximately $215.0 million in convertible subordinated notes due september 2012, $21.6 million in capital lease obligations and $6.0 million of other long-term liabilities. we expect to use a substantial portion of our cash to fund our ongoing operations over the next few years. in the three months ended december 31, 2008, we repurchased approximately $100.0 million in par value of our 3.25% convertible subordinated notes for an aggregate purchase price of $47.8 million. our substantial indebtedness has and will continue to impact us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing; constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate; constraining our stock price; and constraining our ability to invest in our proprietary product development programs. currently, we are not generating positive cash flow. if we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, substantial liquidity problems could result. in relation to our convertible subordinated notes, since the market price of our common stock is significantly below the conversion price, the holders of our outstanding convertible subordinated notes are unlikely to convert the notes to common stock in accordance with the existing terms of the notes. if we do not generate sufficient cash from operations to repay principal or interest on our remaining convertible subordinated notes, or satisfy any of our other debt obligations, when due, we may have to raise additional funds from the issuance of equity or debt securities or otherwise restructure our obligations. any such financing or restructuring may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. if we cannot raise additional capital, our financial condition will suffer. we have no material credit facility or other material committed sources of capital. to the extent operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital needs, we will have to raise additional funds from new collaboration partnerships or the capital markets to continue the marketing and development of our technologies and proprietary products. such funds may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. we may be unable to obtain suitable new collaboration partners on attractive terms and our substantial indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional capital markets financing. if adequate funds are not available on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. our inability to raise capital could harm our business and our stock price. to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities would result in dilution to our stockholders. if government and private insurance programs do not provide reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. a government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. though we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials and are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or our reliance on results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 28 table of contents our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers adherence to such cgmp regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. the results of these inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms, our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our pegylation and polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include the dow chemical company, enzon pharmaceuticals, inc., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., neose technologies, inc., and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing pegylation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are several competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for nktr-061 (inhaled amikacin), the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. for nktr-118 (pegylated naloxol), there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including adolor corporation, glaxosmithkline, progenics pharmaceuticals, inc., wyeth, mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. for nktr-102 (peg-irinotecan), there are a number of approved therapies for the treatment of colorectal cancer, including eloxatin, camptosar, avastin, erbitux, vectibux, xeloda, adrucil and wellcovorin. in addition, there are a number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved chemotherapeutic agents to potentially treat colorectal cancer, including, but not limited to, products in development from bristol-myers squibb company, pfizer, inc., glaxosmithkline plc, antigenics, inc., f. hoffmann-la roche ltd, novartis ag, cell therapeutics, inc., neopharm inc., meditech research ltd, alchemia limited, enzon pharmaceuticals, inc. and others. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. 29 table of contents we could be involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights. the third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain products or product candidates in the u.s. and abroad. for instance, f. hoffmann-la roche ltd, to which we license our proprietary pegylation reagent for use in the mircera product, was a party to a significant patent infringement lawsuit brought by amgen inc. related to roche proposed marketing and sale of mircera to treat chemotherapy anemia in the u.s. amgen prevailed in this lawsuit and a u.s. federal district court issued an injunction preventing roche from marketing and selling mircera in the u.s. third-party claims could also result in the award of substantial damages to be paid by us or a settlement resulting in significant payments to be made by us. for instance, a settlement might require us to enter a license agreement under which we pay substantial royalties to a third party, diminishing our future economic returns from the related product. in 2006, we entered into a litigation settlement related to an intellectual property dispute with the university of alabama in huntsville pursuant to which we paid $11.0 million and agreed to pay an additional $10.0 million in equal $1.0 million installments over ten years ending with the last payment due on july 1, 2016. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. costs associated with such litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered product candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the expenses generated by these activities. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through further reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products that we would not otherwise relinquish. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. 30 table of contents because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, regulatory, finance, marketing and distribution and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if earthquakes and other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, we have in place a preferred share purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill. the provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefits plan which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. 31 table of contents risks related to our securities the price of our common stock and senior convertible debt are expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2008, based on closing bid prices on the nasdaq global select market, our stock price ranged from $2.83 to $7.50 per share. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. in addition, as our convertible senior notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of our notes. also, interest rate fluctuations can affect the price of our convertible senior notes. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock or notes, including: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical trials or those of our competitors, including delays in clinical development, approval or launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to products using our technologies; announcements or terminations of collaborative relationships by us or our competitors; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; hedging activities by purchasers of our convertible senior notes; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; and general market conditions. our stockholders may be diluted, and the price of our common stock may decrease, as a result of the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants or the future issuances of securities. we may issue additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. furthermore, substantially all shares of common stock for which our outstanding stock options or warrants are exercisable are, once they have been purchased, eligible for immediate sale in the public market. the issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock or the exercise of stock options or warrants would dilute existing investors and could adversely affect the price of our securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short-term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $0.4 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2008. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2008. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.7 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2007. 50 table of contents due to the adverse developments in the credit markets in 2008, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of our short-term investments. these investments are generally held to maturity, which is less than one year. however, if the need arose to liquidate such securities before maturity, we may experience losses on liquidation. as of december 31, 2008, we held $233.6 million of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of 72 days. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. we have the ability and intent to hold our debt securities to maturity when they will be redeemed at full par value. accordingly, we consider unrealized losses to be temporary and have not recorded a provision for impairment. foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities outside the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the indian rupee, and we therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 29 risk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 28 risks related to our business drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. we have a number of proprietary drug candidates and partnered drug candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive, difficult to design and implement and highly uncertain as to outcome. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, many years to conduct extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. the start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our and our partners' financial constraints. drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of preclinical and clinical development. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for drug candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. the risk of failure increases for our drug candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to nktr-102, nktr-181, nktr-214 and other drug candidates currently in discovery research or preclinical development. for example, while we believe our nktr-181 phase 3 clinical program employs the most appropriate clinical trial design, we were unable to identify a single cause for the phase 2 study for nktr-181 not meeting its primary efficacy endpoint, and therefore there is increased risk in effectively designing a phase 3 clinical program for nktr-181. the failure of one or more of our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the risk of clinical failure for any drug candidate remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies have suffered significant unforeseen failures in clinical studies due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy or safety, even after achieving preclinical proof-of-concept or positive results from earlier clinical studies that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing regulatory authorities. clinical study outcomes remain very unpredictable and it is possible that one or more of our clinical studies could fail at any time due to efficacy, safety or other important clinical findings or regulatory requirements. the results from preclinical testing or early clinical trials of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in later phase clinical trials of the product candidate. we, the fda, irb, an independent ethics committee, or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time for various reasons, including a belief that subjects participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or adverse side effects. similarly, an irb or ethics committee may suspend a clinical trial at a particular trial site. if one or more of our drug candidates fail in clinical studies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our results of operations and financial condition depend significantly on the ability of our collaboration partners to successfully develop and market drugs and they may fail to do so. under our collaboration agreements with various pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, our collaboration partner is generally solely responsible for: designing and conducting large scale clinical studies; preparing and filing documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug candidate; and/or marketing and selling the drugs when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of significant risks to our business, including risks that: we have very little control over the timing and level of resources that our collaboration partners dedicate to commercial marketing efforts such as the amount of investment in sales and marketing personnel, general marketing campaigns, direct-to-consumer advertising, product sampling, pricing agreements and rebate strategies with government and private payers, manufacturing and supply of drug product, and other marketing and selling activities that need to be undertaken and well executed for a drug to have the potential to achieve commercial success; collaboration partners with commercial rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered drugs than they devote to their own drugs or other drugs that they have in-licensed; we have very little control over the timing and amount of resources our partners devote to development programs in one or more major markets; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; 29 disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future collaboration partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative or positive impact on our business in particular, we expect the commercial outcomes of movantik and adynovate tm (previously referred to as bax 855) to have a particularly significant impact on our near to mid- term financial results and financial condition. additionally, there are also several important drugs in later stage development with collaboration partners including amikacin inhale, cipro dpi, and fovista . if the approved drugs fail to achieve commercial success or the drugs in development fail to have positive late stage clinical outcomes sufficient to support regulatory approval in major markets, it could significantly impair our access to capital necessary to fund our research and development efforts for our proprietary drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital resources to advance our drug candidate pipeline, it would negatively impact the value of our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of our partner's performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered drug candidate development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the collaboration; royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent life, generic competitors, bundled pricing and other factors; and indemnity obligations for intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. we are a party to certain significant agreements, including an asset purchase agreement with novartis pursuant to which we sold a significant portion of our pulmonary business at the end of 2008, the worldwide exclusive license agreement with astrazeneca related to the further development and commercialization of movantik tm , and the purchase and sale agreement with rpi finance trust (rpi) related to the sale of our royalty interests in ucb's cimzia and roche's mircera that we completed in february 2012. each of these agreements contains complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations. if we breach any of our agreements with novartis, astrazeneca, rpi or any other third party agreements, it could subject us to substantial liabilities and harm our financial condition. from time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. for example, in 2015 we filed a lawsuit against allergan and map seeking economic damages related to a dispute over the economic sharing provisions of our license agreement with map. one or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business , results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. drug candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive review process for safety and efficacy by the fda and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. the time required for obtaining regulatory decisions is uncertain and difficult to predict. the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical studies, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. for example, while data from certain pre-specified subgroups in the beacon study was positive, the study did not achieve statistical significance for its primary endpoint and the fda and european medicines agency rarely approve drugs on the basis of studies that do not achieve statistical significance on the primary endpoint. further, regulatory authorities have the discretion to analyze data using their own methodologies that may differ from those used by us or our partners which could lead such authorities to arrive at different conclusions regarding the safety or efficacy of a drug candidate. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. for example, astrazeneca will be conducting a post-marketing, observational epidemiological study comparing movantik tm to other treatments of oic in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain and the results of this study could at some point in the future negatively impact the labeling, regulatory status, and commercial potential of movantik tm . even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. our partnered drugs that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. if we do not receive substantial milestone or royalty payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaborations or other arrangements, or are unable to raise additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our current level of investment in research and development. as of december 31, 2015, we had cash and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $308.9 million. also, as of december 31, 2015, we had $255.8 million in debt, including $250.0 million in principal of senior secured notes and $5.8 million of capital lease obligations. while we believe that our cash position will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous unpredictable factors, including: the cost, timing and outcomes of clinical studies and regulatory reviews of our proprietary drug candidates that we have licensed to our collaboration partners important examples include amikacin inhale and cipro inhale licensed to bayer; the commercial launch and sales levels of products marketed by our collaboration partners for which we are entitled to royalties and sales milestones importantly, the level of success in marketing and selling movantik (or moventig , the naloxegol brand name in the eu) by astrazeneca and adynovate tm by baxalta, respectively; if and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties from our existing collaborations if the drug candidates subject to those collaborations achieve clinical, regulatory or commercial success; the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs; the success, progress, timing and costs of our efforts to implement new collaborations, licenses and other transactions that increase our current net cash, such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us, term loan or other debt arrangements, and the issuance of securities; the number of patients, enrollment criteria, primary and secondary endpoints, and the number of clinical studies required by the regulatory authorities in order to consider for approval our drug candidates and those of our collaboration partners; our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; and disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements that negatively impact our receipt of milestone payments or royalties or require us to make significant payments arising from licenses, settlements, adverse judgments or ongoing royalties. 31 a significant multi-year capital commitment is required to advance our drug candidates through the various stages of research and development in order to generate suffic ient data to enable high value collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments or to successfully achieve regulatory approval. in the event we do not enter into any new collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments and we choose to continue our later stage research and development programs, we may need to pursue financing alternatives, including dilutive equity-based financings, such as an offering of convertible debt or common stock, which would dilute the percentage ownership o f our current common stockholders and could significantly lower the market value of our common stock. if sufficient capital is not available to us or is not available on commercially reasonable terms, it could require us to delay or reduce one or more of o ur research and development programs. if we are unable to sufficiently advance our research and development programs, it could substantially impair the value of such programs and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have not been able to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, there is a risk that a technique could be discovered in the future to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, which would significantly diminish the value of this drug candidate. an important objective of our nktr-181 drug development program is to create a unique opioid molecule that does not rapidly enter a patient's central nervous system and therefore has the potential to be less susceptible to abuse than alternative opioid therapies. to date, we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have been unable to convert nktr-181 into a rapidly-acting, more abusable form of opioid. in the future, an alternative chemistry technique, process or method of administration, or combination thereof, may be discovered to enable the conversion of nktr-181 into a more abusable opioid, which could significantly and negatively impact the commercial potential or diminish the value of nktr-181. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict. if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipate, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, patient and physician preferences, drug scheduling status, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our product candidates following approval by regulatory authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market by asserting our patents. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a drug candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such drug candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and this would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations . we also depend on our relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and the commercialization of product candidates. poor performance by these companies, or disputes with these companies, could negatively impact our revenue and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development capital requirements. the timing of new collaboration partnerships is difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the outcomes from our clinical studies, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. if we are unable to find suitable partners or negotiate collaboration arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future drug candidates or the licensing of our intellectual property, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. preliminary and interim data from our clinical studies that we announce or publish from time to time are subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the final data and may change as more patient data become available. from time to time, we publish preliminary or interim data from our clinical studies. preliminary data remain subject to audit confirmation and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. interim data are also subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as 32 patient enrollment continues and more patient data become available. as a result, preliminary and interim data should be viewed with caution until the final data are available. material adverse changes in the final data could significantly harm our business prospects. delays in clinical studies are common and have many causes, and any significant delay in clinical studies being conducted by us or our partners could result in delay in regulatory approvals and jeopardize the ability to proceed to commercialization. we or our partners may experience delays in clinical trials of drug candidates. we currently have ongoing clinical studies for nktr-181 in patients with chronic lower back pain and initiated a phase 1/2 clinical study for nktr-214 in december 2015. in addition, our collaboration partners have several ongoing phase 3 clinical programs including baxalta for adynovate tm (previously referred to as bax 855), bayer for amikacin inhale and cipro inhale, and ophthotech for fovista . these and other clinical studies may not begin on time, enroll a sufficient number of patients or be completed on schedule, if at all. clinical trials for any of our product candidates could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: delays in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a clinical study; delays in reaching agreement with applicable regulatory authorities on a clinical study design; imposition of a clinical hold by the fda or other health authorities, which may occur at any time including after any inspection of clinical trial operations or trial sites; suspension or termination of a clinical study by us, our partners, the fda or foreign regulatory authorities due to adverse side effects of a drug on subjects in the trial; delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; delays in having patients complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; clinical sites dropping out of a trial to the detriment of enrollment rates; delays in manufacturing and delivery of sufficient supply of clinical trial materials; and changes in regulatory authorities policies or guidance applicable to our drug candidates. if the initiation or completion of any of the planned clinical studies for our drug candidates is delayed for any of the above or other reasons, the regulatory approval process would be delayed and the ability to commercialize and commence sales of these drug candidates could be materially harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our drug candidates on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, methods of preparation and manufacturing, and methods of use and administration. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaboration partners' technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties; however, the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. if a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be prevented from developing and commercializing the drug, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own more than 215 u.s. and 750 foreign patents and a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be held valid and enforceable in a court of law. even for patents that are held valid and enforceable, the legal process associated with obtaining such a judgment is time consuming and costly. additionally, issued patents can be subject to opposition or other proceedings that can result in the revocation of the patent or maintenance of the patent in amended form (and potentially in a form that renders the patent without commercially relevant and/or broad coverage). further, o ur competitors may be able to circumvent and otherwise design around our patents. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to 33 substantial delays, patents may expire earl y and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following the commercialization of products encompassed by our patents. we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in a loss of the patent and/or substantial cost to us. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that the patent applications for which we apply would actually issue as patents, or do so with commercially relevant and/or broad coverage. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. the scope of our claim coverage can be critical to our ability to enter into licensing transactions with third parties and our right to receive royalties from our collaboration partnerships. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. in addition, there is no guarantee that we will be the first to file a patent application directed to an invention. an adverse outcome in any judicial proceeding involving intellectual property, including patents, could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. in those instances where we seek an intellectual property license from another, we may not be able to obtain the license on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all, thereby raising concerns on our ability to freely commercialize our technologies or products. we are involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our obligations to them. a third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology platform or drug candidates or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our collaboration partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and liability if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain drugs or drug candidates in the u.s. and abroad. costs associated with litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. third-party claims involving proprietary rights or other matters could also result in substantial settlement payments or substantial damages to be paid by us. for instance, a settlement might require us to enter a license agreement under which we would pay substantial royalties or other compensation to a third party, diminishing our future economic returns from the related drug. in december 2013, we entered into a litigation settlement with the research foundation of the state university of new york (suny) pursuant to which we agreed to pay $12.0 million and certain other terms and conditions in exchange for the full release of certain breach of contract claims by suny. in addition, from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings where we or other third parties are enforcing or seeking intellectual property rights, invalidating or limiting patent rights that have already been allowed or issued, or otherwise asserting proprietary rights through one or more potential legal remedies. for example, we are currently involved in a german litigation proceeding whereby bayer is seeking co-ownership rights in certain of our patent filings pending at the european patent office covering (among other things) pegylated factor viii which we have exclusively licensed to baxalta. the subject matter of our patent filings in this proceeding relates to bayer's investigational pegylated recombinant factor viii compound. we believe that bayer's claim to an ownership interest in these patent filings is without merit and are vigorously defending sole and exclusive ownership rights to this intellectual property. we are also regularly involved in opposition proceedings at the european patent office where third parties seek to invalidate or limit the scope of our allowed european patent applications covering (among other things) our drugs and platform technologies. we are also aware of an inter partes review petition that was filed with the u.s. patent and trademark office by neptune generics, which is an affiliate of gerchen keller capital. the filing is directed to one of six orange book listed patents covering movantik tm . we believe this petition is without merit and astrazeneca and nektar will vigorously defend the validity of this patent. the cost to us in initiating or defending any litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation would divert our management's attention. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could delay our research and development efforts or result in financial implications either in terms of seeking license arrangements or payment of damages or royalties. 34 our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to laws and other governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condi tion. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and with laws and regulations governing manufacture and distribution of controlled substances, and are subject to inspections by the fda, the drug enforcement administration or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions administering such requirements. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers' adherence to such cgmp and other laws and governmental regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures, administrative detention, or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. regulatory inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in sufficient quantities that meet applicable quality standards, it could delay clinical studies, result in reduced sales or constitute a breach of our contractual obligations, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient drug quantities meeting applicable quality standards required to support large clinical studies or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner, it could delay our or our collaboration partners' clinical studies or result in a breach of our contractual obligations, which could in turn reduce the potential commercial sales of our or our collaboration partners' products. as a result, we could incur substantial costs and damages and any product sales or royalty revenue that we would otherwise be entitled to receive could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. in some cases, we rely on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply drug product for our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners. pharmaceutical manufacturing of drugs and devices involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstration of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process and analytical methods validations, device performance and challenges in controlling for all of these variables. we have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract manufacturers required for drug and device supply to support our clinical studies and the clinical studies and products of our collaboration partners. failure by us or our contract manufacturers to supply drug product or devices in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality requirements could result in supply shortages for our clinical studies or the clinical studies and commercial activities of our collaboration partners. such failures could significantly and materially delay clinical trials and regulatory submissions or result in reduced sales, any of which could significantly harm our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. we experienced repeated significant delays in starting the phase 3 clinical development program for amikacin inhale as we sought to finalize and validate the device design with a demonstrated capability to be manufactured at commercial scale. drug/device combination products are particularly complex, expensive and time-consuming to develop due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient and doctor use, maintenance of clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. there continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is validated and proven. 35 our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, from which we receive upfront fees, contract research payments, milestone and other contingent payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties and manufacturing revenue. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from significant payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch or the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. our past revenue generated from collaboration agreements is not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. if any of our existing or future collaboration partners fails to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture or ultimately commercialize any product candidate under our collaboration agreement, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates successfully. we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. to commercialize any of our drugs that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming, or enter into collaboration arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly or indirectly with our partners include: our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to use or prescribe our products; the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. if we, or our partners through our collaborations, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. to the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and over which we have little or no control important examples of this risk include movantik partnered with astrazeneca and adynovate tm (previously referred to as bax 855) partnered with baxalta. in the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment, and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunities or contract liabilities to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations. any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing our costs. 36 we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary r ights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. for the year ended december 31, 2015, we reported a net loss of $81.2 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone and other contingent payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop drugs utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies; effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of the clinical studies for nktr-181 and nktr-214; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. if government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of payment or reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. a government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. 37 we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials. though we are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trials, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or the failure of third parties to properly conduct our clinical trials could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our pegylation and polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include biogen inc., savient pharmaceuticals, inc., dr. reddy's laboratories ltd., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing pegylation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are many competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for amikacin inhale, the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. for movantik tm , there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including relistor (methylnaltrexone bromide) subcutaneous injection, oral amitizia (lubiprostone), and oral and rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including merck &amp; co., inc., progenics pharmaceuticals, inc. in collaboration with salix pharmaceuticals, ltd., mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals, inc., develco pharma gmbh, alkermes plc, glaxosmithkline plc, theravance, inc., and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. for adynovate tm , on june 6, 2014, the fda approved biogen idec's eloctate for the control and prevention of bleeding episodes, perioperative (surgical) management and routine prophylaxis in adults and children with hemophilia a, and bayer healthcare and novo nordisk have ongoing phase 3 clinical development programs for longer acting factor viii proteins based on pegylation technology approaches. for nktr-181, there are numerous companies developing pain therapies designed to have less abuse potential primarily through formulation technologies and techniques applied to existing pain therapies. for nktr-102 there are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for breast cancer, including, but not limited to: abraxane (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension (albumin bound)), xeloda (capecitabine), afinitor (everolimus), doxil (doxorubicin hcl), ellence (epirubicin), gemzar (gemcitabine), halaven (eribulin), herceptin (trastuzumab), hycamtin (topotecan), ibrance (palbociclib), ixempra (ixabepilone), navelbine (vinolrebine), iniparib, paraplatin (carboplatin), taxol (paclitaxel) and taxotere (docetaxel). major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for breast cancers include, but are not limited to, bristol-meyers squibb company, eli lilly &amp; co., roche, glaxosmithkline plc, johnson and johnson, pfizer inc., eisai inc., and sanofi aventis s.a. there are numerous companies engaged in developing immunotherapies to be used alone, or in combination, to treat a wide range of oncology indications targeting both solid and liquid tumors. in particular, we expect to compete with therapies with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, or tils, chimeric antigen receptor-expressing t cells, or car-t, cytokine-based therapies, and checkpoint inhibitors. potential competitors in the til and car-t space include kite pharma/nci, adaptimmune llc, celgene corporation, juno therapeutics, and novartis, alkermes, altor, and armo in the cytokine-based therapies space, and tesaro, macrogenics, merck, bms, and roche in the checkpoint inhibitor space. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors 38 may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. if we make a decision to bear a majority or all of the clinical development costs of nktr-102 this will substantially increase our future capital requirements. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, research, regulatory and finance, and may need to attract and retain marketing and distribution experts and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. 39 if earthquakes or other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and own and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then-current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefit plan, which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. the price of our common stock is expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2015, based on closing prices on the nasdaq global select market, our stock price ranged from $9.50 to $17.41 per share. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, including the risks described in this section titled risk factors and the following: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to drug candidates and approved drugs in which we have a substantial economic interest; announcements regarding terminations or disputes under our collaboration agreements; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; 40 announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic product that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; our financing needs and activities; and general market conditions. at times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments. the stock prices of biotechnology companies and securities markets generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years. the indenture governing our 7.75% senior secured notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. on october 5, 2015, we issued $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior secured notes due october 2020. the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to take various actions, including, among other things: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified capital stock or cause certain of our subsidiaries to issue preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions, redeem equity interests or subordinated indebtedness or make certain types of investments; create or incur liens; transfer, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets and issue or sell equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries; incur restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or other distributions to the company or to make intercompany loans, advances or asset transfers; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in any business other than businesses which are the same, similar, ancillary or reasonably related to our business as of the date of the indenture; and consummate a merger, consolidation, reorganization or business combination, sell, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or other change of control transaction. this indenture also requires us to maintain a minimum cash balance of $60.0 million. we have certain reporting obligations under the indenture regarding cash position and royalty revenue. the indenture specifies a number of events of default, some of which are subject to applicable grace or cure periods, including, among other things, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, non-payment of material judgments, loss of any material business license, criminal indictment of the company, and certain civil forfeiture proceedings involving material assets of the company. our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by many factors, including events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those requirements. our failure to comply with our obligations could result in an event of default under our other indebtedness and the acceleration of our other indebtedness, in whole or in part, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the senior secured notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short-term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $0.6 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2015. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2015. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.5 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2014. as of december 31, 2015, we held $253.4 million of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of six months. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. based on our available cash and our expected operating cash requirements, we currently do not intend to sell these securities prior to maturity and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities before we recover the amortized cost basis. accordingly, we believe there are no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities and have not recorded any provisions for impairment. foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities outside the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the indian rupee, and we therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 58risk factors 30 ri sk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. we have a number of proprietary drug candidates and partnered drug candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive, difficult to design and implement and highly uncertain as to outcome. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, many years to conduct extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. the start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our and our partners' financial constraints. drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of preclinical and clinical development. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for drug candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. the risk of failure increases for our drug candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to onzeald tm , nktr-181, nktr-214 and other drug candidates currently in discovery research or preclinical development. for example, while we believe our nktr-181 phase 3 clinical program employs the most appropriate clinical trial design, we were unable to identify a single cause for the phase 2 study for nktr-181 not meeting its primary efficacy endpoint, and therefore there is increased risk in effectively designing a phase 3 clinical program for nktr-181. the failure of one or more of our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the risk of clinical failure for any drug candidate remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies have suffered significant unforeseen failures in clinical studies due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy or safety, even after achieving preclinical proof-of-concept or positive results from earlier clinical studies that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing regulatory authorities. clinical study outcomes remain very unpredictable and it is possible that one or more of our clinical studies could fail at any time due to efficacy, safety or other important clinical findings or regulatory requirements. the results from preclinical testing or early clinical trials of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in later phase clinical trials of the product candidate. we, the fda, irb, an independent ethics committee, or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time for various reasons, including a belief that subjects participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or adverse side effects. similarly, an irb or ethics committee may suspend a clinical trial at a particular trial site. if one or more of our drug candidates fail in clinical studies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our results of operations and financial condition depend significantly on the ability of our collaboration partners to successfully develop and market drugs and they may fail to do so. under our collaboration agreements with various pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, our collaboration partner is generally solely responsible for: designing and conducting large scale clinical studies; preparing and filing documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug candidate; and/or marketing and selling the drugs when and if they are approved. 30 our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of significant risks to our business, including risks that: we have very little control over the timing and level of resources that our collaboration partners dedicate to commercial marketing efforts such as the amount of investment in sales and marketing personnel, general marketing campaigns, direct-to-consumer advertising, product sampling, pricing agreements and rebate strategies with government and private payers, manufacturing and supply of drug product, and other marketing and selling activities that need to be undertaken and well executed for a drug to have the potential to achieve commercial success; collaboration partners with commercial rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered drugs than they devote to their own drugs or other drugs that they have in-licensed; we have very little control over the timing and amount of resources our partners devote to development programs in one or more major markets; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future collaboration partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative or positive impact on our business in particular, we expect the commercial outcomes of movantik , moventig and adynovate (previously referred to as bax 855) to have a particularly significant impact on our near to mid- term financial results and financial condition. additionally, there are also several important drugs in later stage development with collaboration partners including amikacin inhale, cipro dpi, and fovista . if the approved drugs fail to achieve commercial success or the drugs in development fail to have positive late stage clinical outcomes sufficient to support regulatory approval in major markets, it could significantly impair our access to capital necessary to fund our research and development efforts for our proprietary drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital resources to advance our drug candidate pipeline, it would negatively impact the value of our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of our partner's performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered drug candidate development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the collaboration; royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent life, generic competitors, bundled pricing and other factors; and indemnity obligations for intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. we are a party to numerous significant collaboration agreements and other strategic transaction agreements (e.g., financings and asset divestitures) that contain complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations. if we are found to have materially breached such agreements, it could subject us to substantial liabilities and harm our financial condition. 31 from time to time, we are involved in litigation matters involving the interpretation and application of complex terms and conditions of our agreements. for example, in february 2015 we filed a claim against allergan and map seeking monetary damages re lated to a dispute over the economic sharing provisions of our collaboration agreement with map. on august 14, 2015, enzon, inc. filed a breach of contract claim for alleged unpaid licensing fees. in 2013, we settled a breach of contract litigation matter with the research foundation of the state university of new york (suny) pursuant to which we paid an aggregate of $12.0 million. one or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or thi rd-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. drug candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive review process for safety and efficacy by the fda and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. the time required for obtaining regulatory decisions is uncertain and difficult to predict. the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical studies, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. for example, while data from certain pre-specified subgroups in the beacon study was positive, the study did not achieve statistical significance for its primary endpoint and the fda and european medicines agency rarely approve drugs on the basis of studies that do not achieve statistical significance on the primary endpoint. further, regulatory authorities have the discretion to analyze data using their own methodologies that may differ from those used by us or our partners which could lead such authorities to arrive at different conclusions regarding the safety or efficacy of a drug candidate. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. for example, astrazeneca will be conducting a post-marketing, observational epidemiological study comparing movantik to other treatments of oic in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain and the results of this study could at some point in the future negatively impact the labeling, regulatory status, and commercial potential of movantik . even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. our partnered drugs that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. if we do not receive substantial milestone or royalty payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaborations or other arrangements, or are unable to raise additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our current level of investment in research and development. as of december 31, 2016, we had cash and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $389.1 million. also, as of december 31, 2016, we had $255.1 million in debt, including $250.0 million in principal of senior secured notes and $5.1 million of capital lease obligations. while we believe that our cash position will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous unpredictable factors, including: the cost, timing and outcomes of clinical studies and regulatory reviews of our proprietary drug candidates that we have licensed to our collaboration partners important examples include amikacin inhale and cipro inhale licensed to bayer; the commercial launch and sales levels of products marketed by our collaboration partners for which we are entitled to royalties and sales milestones importantly, the level of success in marketing and selling movantik by astrazeneca in the u.s. and adynovate by baxalta globally, as well as moventig (the naloxegol brand name in the eu) by kirin in the eu; if and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties from our existing collaborations if the drug candidates subject to those collaborations achieve clinical, regulatory or commercial success; the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs; 32 the success, progress, timing and costs of our efforts to implement new collab orations, licenses and other transactions that increase our current net cash, such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us, term loan or other debt arrangements, and the issuance of securities; the number of patients, enrollment criteria, primary and secondary endpoints, and the number of clinical studies required by the regulatory authorities in order to consider for approval our drug candidates and those of our collaboration partners; our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; and disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements that negatively impact our receipt of milestone payments or royalties or require us to make significant payments arising from licenses, settlements, adverse judgments or ongoing royalties. a significant multi-year capital commitment is required to advance our drug candidates through the various stages of research and development in order to generate sufficient data to enable high value collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments or to successfully achieve regulatory approval. in the event we do not enter into any new collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments and we choose to continue our later stage research and development programs, we may need to pursue financing alternatives, including dilutive equity-based financings, such as an offering of convertible debt or common stock, which would dilute the percentage ownership of our current common stockholders and could significantly lower the market value of our common stock. if sufficient capital is not available to us or is not available on commercially reasonable terms, it could require us to delay or reduce one or more of our research and development programs. if we are unable to sufficiently advance our research and development programs, it could substantially impair the value of such programs and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have not been able to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, there is a risk that a technique could be discovered in the future to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, which would significantly diminish the value of this drug candidate. an important objective of our nktr-181 drug development program is to create a unique opioid molecule that does not rapidly enter a patient's central nervous system and therefore has the potential to be less susceptible to abuse than alternative opioid therapies. to date, we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have been unable to convert nktr-181 into a rapidly-acting, more abusable form of opioid. in the future, an alternative chemistry technique, process or method of administration, or combination thereof, may be discovered to enable the conversion of nktr-181 into a more abusable opioid, which could significantly and negatively impact the commercial potential or diminish the value of nktr-181. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict. if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipate, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, patient and physician preferences, drug scheduling status, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our product candidates following approval by regulatory authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market by asserting our patents. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a drug candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such drug candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and this would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations . we also depend on our relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and the commercialization of product candidates. poor performance by these companies, or disputes with these companies, could negatively impact our revenue and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development capital requirements. the timing of new collaboration partnerships is difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the outcomes from our clinical studies, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. if we are unable to find suitable partners or negotiate collaboration arrangements with favorable commercial 33 terms with respect to our exis ting and future drug candidates or the licensing of our intellectual property, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. preliminary and interim data from our clinical studies that we announce or publish from time to time are subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the final data and may change as more patient data become available. from time to time, we publish preliminary or interim data from our clinical studies. preliminary data remain subject to audit confirmation and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. interim data are also subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as patient enrollment continues and more patient data become available. as a result, preliminary and interim data should be viewed with caution until the final data are available. material adverse changes in the final data could significantly harm our business prospects. delays in clinical studies are common and have many causes, and any significant delay in clinical studies being conducted by us or our partners could result in delay in regulatory approvals and jeopardize the ability to proceed to commercialization. we or our partners may experience delays in clinical trials of drug candidates. we currently have several ongoing clinical studies for nktr-181 in patients with chronic lower back pain and initiated a phase 1/2 clinical study for nktr-214 in december 2015. in addition, our collaboration partners have several ongoing phase 3 clinical programs including baxalta for adynovate (previously referred to as bax 855) in the eu, bayer for amikacin inhale and cipro inhale, and ophthotech for fovista . we also have ongoing trials with our partners for the following: halozyme has trials in pancreatic, non-small cell lung cancer and other multiple tumor types in phase 1, 2, and 3 development. these and other clinical studies may not begin on time, enroll a sufficient number of patients or be completed on schedule, if at all. clinical trials for any of our product candidates could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: delays in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a clinical study; delays in reaching agreement with applicable regulatory authorities on a clinical study design; imposition of a clinical hold by the fda or other health authorities, which may occur at any time including after any inspection of clinical trial operations or trial sites; suspension or termination of a clinical study by us, our partners, the fda or foreign regulatory authorities due to adverse side effects of a drug on subjects in the trial; delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; delays in having patients complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; clinical sites dropping out of a trial to the detriment of enrollment rates; delays in manufacturing and delivery of sufficient supply of clinical trial materials; and changes in regulatory authorities policies or guidance applicable to our drug candidates. if the initiation or completion of any of the planned clinical studies for our drug candidates is delayed for any of the above or other reasons, the regulatory approval process would be delayed and the ability to commercialize and commence sales of these drug candidates could be materially harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. clinical study delays could also shorten any periods during which our products have patent protection and may allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, which could impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our drug candidates on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, methods of preparation and manufacturing, and methods of use and administration. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaboration partners' technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties; however, the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate 34 technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. if a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be prevented from developing and commercializing the drug, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own more than 215 u.s. and 750 foreign patents and a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be held valid and enforceable in a court of law. even for patents that are held valid and enforceable, the legal process associated with obtaining such a judgment is time consuming and costly. additionally, issued patents can be subject to opposition or other proceedings that can result in the revocation of the patent or maintenance of the patent in amended form (and potentially in a form that renders the patent without commercially relevant and/or broad coverage). further, our competitors may be able to circumvent and otherwise design around our patents. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following the commercialization of products encompassed by our patents. we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in a loss of the patent and/or substantial cost to us. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that the patent applications for which we apply would actually issue as patents, or do so with commercially relevant and/or broad coverage. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. the scope of our claim coverage can be critical to our ability to enter into licensing transactions with third parties and our right to receive royalties from our collaboration partnerships. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. in addition, there is no guarantee that we will be the first to file a patent application directed to an invention. an adverse outcome in any judicial proceeding involving intellectual property, including patents, could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. in those instances where we seek an intellectual property license from another, we may not be able to obtain the license on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all, thereby raising concerns on our ability to freely commercialize our technologies or products. we are involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our obligations to them. a third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology platform or drug candidates or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our collaboration partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and liability if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain drugs or drug candidates in the u.s. and abroad. costs associated with litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are involved in legal proceedings where we or other third parties are enforcing or seeking intellectual property rights, invalidating or limiting patent rights that have already been allowed or issued, or otherwise asserting proprietary rights through one or more potential legal remedies. for example, we are currently involved in a german litigation proceeding whereby bayer is seeking co-ownership rights in certain of our patent filings pending at the european patent office covering (among other things) pegylated factor viii which we have exclusively licensed to baxalta. the subject matter of our patent filings in this proceeding relates to bayer's investigational pegylated recombinant factor viii compound. we believe that bayer's claim to an ownership interest in these patent filings is without merit and are vigorously defending sole and exclusive ownership rights to this intellectual property. in addition, bayer has filed a claim in the u.s. against baxalta and nektar in which bayer alleges adynovate infringes a bayer patent. we are also regularly involved in opposition proceedings at the european patent office where third parties seek to invalidate or limit the scope of our allowed european patent applications covering (among other things) our drugs and platform technologies. the cost to us in initiating or defending any litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation would divert our management's attention. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of 35 patent litigation or other proceedings could delay our research and development efforts or result in financial implications either in terms of seeking license arrangements or payment of damages or royalties. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to laws and other governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and with laws and regulations governing manufacture and distribution of controlled substances, and are subject to inspections by the fda, the drug enforcement administration or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions administering such requirements. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers' adherence to such cgmp and other laws and governmental regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures, administrative detention, or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. regulatory inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in sufficient quantities that meet applicable quality standards, it could delay clinical studies, result in reduced sales or constitute a breach of our contractual obligations, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient drug quantities meeting applicable quality standards required to support large clinical studies or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner, it could delay our or our collaboration partners' clinical studies or result in a breach of our contractual obligations, which could in turn reduce the potential commercial sales of our or our collaboration partners' products. as a result, we could incur substantial costs and damages and any product sales or royalty revenue that we would otherwise be entitled to receive could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. in some cases, we rely on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply drug product for our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners. pharmaceutical manufacturing of drugs and devices involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstration of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process and analytical methods validations, device performance and challenges in controlling for all of these variables. we have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract manufacturers required for drug and device supply to support our clinical studies and the clinical studies and products of our collaboration partners. failure by us or our contract manufacturers to supply drug product or devices in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality requirements could result in supply shortages for our clinical studies or the clinical studies and commercial activities of our collaboration partners. such failures could significantly and materially delay clinical trials and regulatory submissions or result in reduced sales, any of which could significantly harm our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. we experienced repeated significant delays in starting the phase 3 clinical development program for amikacin inhale as we sought to finalize and validate the device design with a demonstrated capability to be manufactured at commercial scale. drug/device combination products are particularly complex, expensive and time-consuming to develop due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient and doctor use, maintenance of clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. there continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is validated and proven. 36 our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is theref ore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, from which we receive upfront fees, contract research payments, milestone and other contingent payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties and manufacturing revenue. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from significant payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch or the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. our past revenue generated from collaboration agreements is not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. if any of our existing or future collaboration partners fails to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture or ultimately commercialize any product candidate under our collaboration agreement, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates successfully. we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. to commercialize any of our drugs that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming, or enter into collaboration arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly or indirectly with our partners include: our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to use or prescribe our products; the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. if we, or our partners through our collaborations, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. to the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and over which we have little or no control important examples of this risk include movantik partnered with astrazeneca and adynovate (previously referred to as bax 855) partnered with baxalta. in the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment, and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunities or contract liabilities to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations. any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing our costs. 37 we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. for the year ended december 31, 2016, we reported a net loss of $153.5 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone and other contingent payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop drugs utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies; effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of the clinical studies for nktr-181 and nktr-214; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. if government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of payment or reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. for example, president trump has indicated support for possible new measures related to drug pricing. new government legislation or regulations related to pricing or a government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products hold the potential to severely limit market opportunities of such products. 38 we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obl igations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials. though we are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trials, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or the failure of third parties to properly conduct our clinical trials could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include biogen inc., savient pharmaceuticals, inc., dr. reddy's laboratories ltd., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing polymer conjugation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are many competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for amikacin inhale, the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. for movantik , there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including relistor subcutaneous injection (methylnaltrexone bromide), oral therapy amitizia (lubiprostone), and oral and rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including merck &amp; co., inc., progenics pharmaceuticals, inc. in collaboration with salix pharmaceuticals, ltd., purdue pharma l.p. in collaboration with shionogi &amp; co., ltd., mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals, inc., develco pharma gmbh, alkermes plc, glaxosmithkline plc, theravance, inc., and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. for adynovate , on june 6, 2014, the fda approved biogen idec's eloctate for the control and prevention of bleeding episodes, perioperative (surgical) management and routine prophylaxis in adults and children with hemophilia a, and bayer healthcare and novo nordisk have ongoing phase 3 clinical development programs for longer acting factor viii proteins based on polymer conjugation technology approaches. for nktr-181, there are numerous companies developing pain therapies designed to have less abuse potential primarily through formulation technologies and techniques applied to existing pain therapies. potential competitors include acura pharmaceuticals, inc., cara therapeutics, inc., collegium pharmaceutical, inc., egalet ltd, elite pharmaceuticals, inc., endo health solutions inc., kempharm, inc., pfizer, inc., purdue pharma l.p., and teva pharmaceutical industries ltd. for onzeald tm there are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for breast cancer, including, but not limited to: abraxane (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension (albumin bound)), xeloda (capecitabine), afinitor (everolimus), doxil (doxorubicin hcl), ellence (epirubicin), gemzar (gemcitabine), halaven (eribulin), herceptin (trastuzumab), hycamtin (topotecan), ibrance (palbociclib), ixempra (ixabepilone), navelbine (vinolrebine), iniparib, paraplatin (carboplatin), taxol (paclitaxel) and taxotere (docetaxel). major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for breast cancers include, but are not limited to, bristol-myers squibb company, eli lilly &amp; co., roche, glaxosmithkline plc, johnson and johnson, pfizer inc., eisai inc., and sanofi aventis s.a. there are numerous companies engaged in developing immunotherapies to be used alone, or in combination, to treat a wide range of oncology indications targeting both solid and liquid tumors. in particular, we expect to compete with therapies with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, or tils, chimeric antigen receptor-expressing t cells, or car-t, cytokine-based therapies, and checkpoint inhibitors. potential competitors in the til and car-t space include kite pharma/nci, adaptimmune llc, celgene corporation, juno therapeutics, and novartis, alkermes, altor, and armo in the cytokine-based therapies space, and tesaro, macrogenics, merck, bms, and roche in the checkpoint inhibitor space. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these 39 companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relation ships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technolo gies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. our internal computer systems, or those of our cros or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our product development programs or the theft of our confidential information or patient confidential information. despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our cros and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. such events could cause interruptions of our operations. for instance, the loss of preclinical data or data from any future clinical trial involving our product candidates could result in delays in our development and regulatory filing efforts and significantly increase our costs. to the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information of our company or clinical patients, we could incur liability and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. if we make a decision to bear a majority or all of the clinical development costs of nktr-102 this will substantially increase our future capital requirements. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, research, regulatory and finance, and may need to attract and retain marketing and distribution experts and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because 40 competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the pri ce of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if earthquakes or other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and own and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then-current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefit plan, which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. 41 the price of our common stock is expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2016, based on closing prices on the nasdaq global select market, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $11.00 to $19.68 per share. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, including the risks described in this section titled risk factors and the following: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to drug candidates and approved drugs in which we have a substantial economic interest; announcements regarding terminations or disputes under our collaboration agreements; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; our financing needs and activities; and general market conditions. at times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments. the stock prices of biotechnology companies and securities markets generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years. the indenture governing our 7.75% senior secured notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. on october 5, 2015, we issued $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior secured notes due october 2020. the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to take various actions, including, among other things: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified capital stock or cause certain of our subsidiaries to issue preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions, redeem equity interests or subordinated indebtedness or make certain types of investments; create or incur liens; transfer, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets and issue or sell equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries; incur restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or other distributions to the company or to make intercompany loans, advances or asset transfers; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in any business other than businesses which are the same, similar, ancillary or reasonably related to our business as of the date of the indenture; and consummate a merger, consolidation, reorganization or business combination, sell, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or other change of control transaction. this indenture also requires us to maintain a minimum cash balance of $60.0 million. we have certain reporting obligations under the indenture regarding cash position and royalty revenue. the indenture specifies a number of events of default, some of which are subject to applicable grace or cure periods, including, among other things, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, non-payment of material judgments, loss of any material business license, criminal indictment of the company, and certain civil forfeiture proceedings involving material assets of the company. our 42 ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by many factors, including even ts beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those requirements. our failure to comply with our obligations could result in an event of default under our other indebtedness and the acceleration of our other indebtedness, in whole or in part, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the senior secured notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitat ive disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short-term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $0.8 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2016. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2016. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.6 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2015. as of december 31, 2016, we held $329.5 million of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of six months. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. based on our available cash and our expected operating cash requirements, we currently do not intend to sell these securities prior to maturity and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities before we recover the amortized cost basis. accordingly, we believe there are no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities and have not recorded any provisions for impairment. foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities outside the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the indian rupee, and we therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 58risk factors 32 ri sk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business we are highly dependent on the success of nktr-214, our lead i-o candidate. we are executing a broad development program for nktr-214 and clinical and regulatory outcomes for nktr-214, if not successful, will significantly harm our business. our future success is highly dependent on our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize nktr-214. in general, most early stage investigatory drugs, including oncology drug candidates such as nktr-214, do not become approved drugs. accordingly, there is a very meaningful risk that nktr-214 will not succeed in one or more clinical trials sufficient to support one or more regulatory approvals. to date, clinical outcomes from nktr-214 have had a significant impact on our market valuation, financial position, and business prospects and we expect this to continue in future periods. if one or more clinical studies of nktr-214 are not successful, it would materially harm our market valuation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. for example, upon the effective date of the strategic collaboration agreement with bristol-myers squibb, we would be entitled to up to $1.43 billion in development milestones that are based upon clinical and regulatory successes from the nktr-214 development program. failures in nktr-214 studies could jeopardize such milestone payments. drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. we have a number of proprietary drug candidates and partnered drug candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive, difficult to design and implement and highly uncertain as to outcome. it will take us, or our collaborative partners, many years to conduct extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. the start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our and our partners' financial constraints. drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of preclinical and clinical development. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for drug candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. the risk of failure increases for our drug candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to onzeald tm , nktr-181, nktr-214, nktr-358, nktr-262, nktr-255, and other drug candidates currently in discovery research or preclinical development. the failure of one or more of our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the risk of clinical failure for any drug candidate remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies have suffered significant unforeseen failures in clinical studies due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy or safety, even after achieving preclinical proof-of-concept or positive results from earlier clinical studies that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing regulatory authorities. clinical study outcomes remain very unpredictable and it is possible that one or more of our clinical studies could fail at any time due to efficacy, safety or other important clinical findings or regulatory requirements. the results from preclinical testing or early clinical trials of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in later phase clinical trials of the product candidate. we, the fda, an independent institutional review board (irb), an independent ethics committee, or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time for various reasons, including a belief that subjects participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or adverse side effects. similarly, an irb or ethics committee may suspend a clinical trial at a particular trial site. if one or more of our drug candidates fail in clinical studies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 our results of operations and financial condition depend significantly on the ability of our collaboration partners to successfully develop and market drugs and they may fail to do so. under our collaboration agreements with various pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies (other than the bms collaboration agreement), our collaboration partner is generally solely responsible for: designing and conducting large scale clinical studies; preparing and filing documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug candidate; and/or marketing and selling the drugs when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of significant risks to our business, including risks that: we have very little control over the timing and level of resources that our collaboration partners dedicate to commercial marketing efforts such as the amount of investment in sales and marketing personnel, general marketing campaigns, direct-to-consumer advertising, product sampling, pricing agreements and rebate strategies with government and private payers, manufacturing and supply of drug product, and other marketing and selling activities that need to be undertaken and well executed for a drug to have the potential to achieve commercial success; collaboration partners with commercial rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered drugs than they devote to their own drugs or other drugs that they have in-licensed; we have very little control over the timing and amount of resources our partners devote to development programs in one or more major markets; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future collaboration partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative or positive impact on our business. if the approved drugs fail to achieve commercial success or the drugs in development fail to have positive late stage clinical outcomes sufficient to support regulatory approval in major markets, it could significantly impair our access to capital necessary to fund our research and development efforts for our proprietary drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital resources to advance our drug candidate pipeline, it would negatively impact the value of our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of our partner's performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered drug candidate development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the collaboration; 33 royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent lif e, generic competitors, bundled pricing and other factors; and indemnity obligations for intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. we are a party to numerous significant collaboration agreements and other strategic transaction agreements (e.g., financings and asset divestitures) that contain complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations. if we are found to have materially breached such agreements, it could subject us to substantial liabilities and harm our financial condition. from time to time, we are involved in litigation matters involving the interpretation and application of complex terms and conditions of our agreements. for example, in february 2015, we filed a claim against allergan and map seeking monetary damages related to a dispute over the economic sharing provisions of our collaboration agreement with map. on december 12, 2017, nektar, map and allergan entered into a settlement agreement and release, for which map paid us $15.0 million in december 2017. on august 14, 2015, enzon, inc. filed a breach of contract claim for alleged unpaid licensing fees (the enzon litigation ). on june 26, 2017, we entered into a second amendment to our cross-license and option agreement ( cross-license agreement ) with enzon in which we agreed to pay enzon a sum of $7.0 million to satisfy all past and future obligations of royalty payments pursuant to the cross-license agreement and to have the enzon litigation dismissed. the enzon litigation was dismissed with prejudice on june 30, 2017. in 2013, we settled a breach of contract litigation matter with the research foundation of the state university of new york (suny) pursuant to which we paid an aggregate of $12.0 million. one or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. drug candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive review process for safety and efficacy by the fda and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. the time required for obtaining regulatory decisions is uncertain and difficult to predict. the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical studies, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. for example, while data from certain pre-specified subgroups in our beacon study for etirinotecan pegol (nktr-102) in 2015 was positive, the study did not achieve statistical significance for its primary endpoint and the fda and european medicines agency rarely approve drugs on the basis of studies that do not achieve statistical significance on the primary endpoint. further, while the results from the phase 3 study of nktr-181 were positive, nktr-181 has fast track designation and we intend to file an nda following our pre-nda meetings with fda, the regulatory pathway for nktr-181 remains subject to substantial uncertainty including the amount of data required to support an approval of nktr-181. in particular, regulations concerning and controlling the access to opioid-based pharmaceuticals are strict and there is no guarantee which scheduling category will apply to nktr-181 if regulatory approval is achieved. further, regulatory authorities have the discretion to analyze data using their own methodologies that may differ from those used by us or our partners, which could lead such authorities to arrive at different conclusions regarding the safety or efficacy of a drug candidate. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. for example, astrazeneca will be conducting a post-marketing, observational epidemiological study comparing movantik to other treatments of oic in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain and the results of this study could at some point in the future negatively impact the labeling, regulatory status, and commercial potential of movantik . even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. our partnered drugs that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 34 we have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. if we do not receive substantial milestone or royalty payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaborations or other arrangements, or are unable to raise additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our current level of investment in research and development. as of december 31, 2017, we had cash and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $353.2 million and had debt of $250.0 million in principal of senior secured notes. in addition, as described above and in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, in february 2018, we entered into a collaboration agreement with bms under which bms agreed to pay us a non-refundable upfront cash payment of $1.0 billion and a share purchase agreement under which bms agreed to purchase $850.0 million of shares of our common stock. the closings under the two agreements, subject to satisfaction of certain closing conditions, are expected to occur during the second quarter of 2018. while we believe that our cash position will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous unpredictable factors, including: the cost, timing and outcomes of clinical studies and regulatory reviews of our proprietary drug candidates that we have licensed to our collaboration partners important examples include nktr-214 in collaboration with bms, cipro dpi licensed to bayer and nktr-358 licensed to lilly; the commercial launch and sales levels of products marketed by our collaboration partners for which we are entitled to royalties and sales milestones importantly, the level of success in marketing and selling movantik by astrazeneca in the u.s. and adynovate by baxalta globally, as well as moventig (the naloxegol brand name in the eu) by kirin in the eu; if and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties from our existing collaborations if the drug candidates subject to those collaborations achieve clinical, regulatory or commercial success; the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs; the success, progress, timing and costs of our efforts to implement new collaborations, licenses and other transactions that increase our current net cash, such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us, term loan or other debt arrangements, and the issuance of securities; the number of patients, enrollment criteria, primary and secondary endpoints, and the number of clinical studies required by the regulatory authorities in order to consider for approval our drug candidates and those of our collaboration partners; our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; and disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements that negatively impact our receipt of milestone payments or royalties or require us to make significant payments arising from licenses, settlements, adverse judgments or ongoing royalties. a significant multi-year capital commitment is required to advance our drug candidates through the various stages of research and development in order to generate sufficient data to enable high value collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments or to successfully achieve regulatory approval. in the event we do not enter into any new collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments and we choose to continue our later stage research and development programs, we may need to pursue financing alternatives, including dilutive equity-based financings, such as an offering of convertible debt or common stock, which would dilute the percentage ownership of our current common stockholders and could significantly lower the market value of our common stock. if sufficient capital is not available to us or is not available on commercially reasonable terms, it could require us to delay or reduce one or more of our research and development programs. if we are unable to sufficiently advance our research and development programs, it could substantially impair the value of such programs and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have not been able to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, there is a risk that a technique could be discovered in the future to convert nktr-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, which would significantly diminish the value of this drug candidate. an important objective of our nktr-181 drug development program is to create a unique opioid molecule that does not rapidly enter a patient's central nervous system and therefore has the potential to be less susceptible to abuse than alternative opioid therapies. to date, we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have been unable to convert nktr-181 into a rapidly-acting, more abusable form of opioid. in the future, an alternative chemistry technique, process or method of administration, or combination thereof, may be discovered to enable the conversion of nktr-181 into a more abusable opioid, which could significantly and negatively impact the commercial potential or diminish the value of nktr-181. 35 the comm ercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict. if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipate, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condit ion. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, patient and physician preferences, drug scheduling status, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our product candidates following approval by regulatory authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market by asserting our patents. in particular, regulations concerning and controlling the access to opioid-based pharmaceuticals are strict and there is no guarantee which scheduling category will apply to nktr-181 if regulatory approval is achieved. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a drug candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such drug candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and this would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also depend on our relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and the commercialization of product candidates. poor performance by these companies, or disputes with these companies, could negatively impact our revenue and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development capital requirements. the timing of new collaboration partnerships is difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the outcomes from our clinical studies, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. if we are unable to find suitable partners or negotiate collaboration arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future drug candidates or the licensing of our intellectual property, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. preliminary and interim data from our clinical studies that we announce or publish from time to time are subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the final data and may change as more patient data become available. from time to time, we publish preliminary or interim data from our clinical studies. preliminary data remain subject to audit confirmation and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. interim data are also subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as patient enrollment continues and more patient data become available. as a result, preliminary and interim data should be viewed with caution until the final data are available. material adverse changes in the final data could significantly harm our business prospects. delays in clinical studies are common and have many causes, and any significant delay in clinical studies being conducted by us or our partners could result in delay in regulatory approvals and jeopardize the ability to proceed to commercialization. we or our partners may experience delays in clinical trials of drug candidates. we have ongoing trials evaluating nktr-214 including a trial evaluating nktr-214 as a potential combination treatment with bms's opdivo (nivolumab) as well as other ongoing and planned combination trials. we also have an ongoing phase 1 dose-escalation study for nktr-358 under our collaboration with lilly, including an on-going dose-finding trial of nktr-358 to evaluate single-ascending doses of nktr-358 in healthy subjects, and a multiple-ascending dose trial expected to be initiated in the first half of 2018 to evaluate nktr-358 in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. we also have ongoing trials with our partners for the following: halozyme has trials in pancreatic, non-small cell lung cancer and other multiple tumor types in phase 1, 2, and 3 development. these and other clinical studies may not begin on time, enroll a sufficient number of patients or be completed on schedule, if at all. clinical trials for any of our product candidates could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: delays in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a clinical study; delays in reaching agreement with applicable regulatory authorities on a clinical study design; imposition of a clinical hold by the fda or other health authorities, which may occur at any time including after any inspection of clinical trial operations or trial sites; 36 suspension or termination of a clinical study by us, our partners, the fda or fore ign regulatory authorities due to adverse side effects of a drug on subjects in the trial; delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; delays in having patients complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; clinical sites dropping out of a trial to the detriment of enrollment rates; delays in manufacturing and delivery of sufficient supply of clinical trial materials; and changes in regulatory authorities policies or guidance applicable to our drug candidates. if the initiation or completion of any of the planned clinical studies for our drug candidates is delayed for any of the above or other reasons, the regulatory approval process would be delayed and the ability to commercialize and commence sales of these drug candidates could be materially harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. clinical study delays could also shorten any periods during which our products have patent protection and may allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, which could impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our drug candidates on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, methods of preparation and manufacturing, and methods of use and administration. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaboration partners' technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties; however, the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. if a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be prevented from developing and commercializing the drug, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own more than 250 u.s. and 800 foreign patents and have a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be held valid and enforceable in a court of law. even for patents that are held valid and enforceable, the legal process associated with obtaining such a judgment is time consuming and costly. additionally, issued patents can be subject to opposition or other proceedings that can result in the revocation of the patent or maintenance of the patent in amended form (and potentially in a form that renders the patent without commercially relevant and/or broad coverage). further, our competitors may be able to circumvent and otherwise design around our patents. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following the commercialization of products encompassed by our patents. we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in a loss of the patent and/or substantial cost to us. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that the patent applications for which we apply would actually issue as patents, or do so with commercially relevant and/or broad coverage. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. the scope of our claim coverage can be critical to our ability to enter into licensing transactions with third parties and our right to receive royalties from our collaboration partnerships. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. in addition, there is no guarantee that we will be the first to file a patent application directed to an invention. an adverse outcome in any judicial proceeding involving intellectual property, including patents, could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in 37 dispute. in those instances where we seek an intellectual property license from another, we may not be able to obtain the license on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all, thereby raising concerns on our abilit y to freely commercialize our technologies or products. we are involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our obligations to them. a third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology platform or drug candidates or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our collaboration partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and liability if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain drugs or drug candidates in the u.s. and abroad. costs associated with litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are involved in legal proceedings where we or other third parties are enforcing or seeking intellectual property rights, invalidating or limiting patent rights that have already been allowed or issued, or otherwise asserting proprietary rights through one or more potential legal remedies. for example, we are currently involved in a german litigation proceeding whereby bayer is seeking co-ownership rights in certain of our patent filings pending at the european patent office covering, among other things, pegylated factor viii which we have exclusively licensed to baxalta. the subject matter of our patent filings in this proceeding relates to bayer's pegylated recombinant factor viii compound, bay 94-9027. we believe that bayer's claim to an ownership interest in these patent filings is without merit and are vigorously defending sole and exclusive ownership rights to this intellectual property. in addition, bayer has filed claims in the u.s. against baxalta and nektar. in one u.s. proceeding, bayer alleges adynovate infringes a bayer patent. in another u.s. proceeding, bayer is seeking a declaratory judgement that bay 94-9027 does not infringe specified nektar patents or in the alternative that the specified patents are invalid. as part of its intellectual property litigation strategy relating to pegylated factor viii products, nektar has also filed claims against bayer. we are also regularly involved in opposition proceedings at the european patent office where third parties seek to invalidate or limit the scope of our allowed european patent applications covering (among other things) our drugs and platform technologies. the cost to us in initiating or defending any litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation would divert our management's attention. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could delay our research and development efforts or result in financial implications either in terms of seeking license arrangements or payment of damages or royalties. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to laws and other governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and with laws and regulations governing manufacture and distribution of controlled substances, and are subject to inspections by the fda, the drug enforcement administration or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions administering such requirements. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers' adherence to such cgmp and other laws and governmental regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures, administrative detention, or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. regulatory inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 38 if we or current or future collaborators or service providers fail to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties. although we do not currently have any products on the market, once we begin commercializing our drug candidates, we will be subject to additional healthcare statutory and regulatory requirements and enforcement by the federal and state governments of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any drug candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our therapeutic candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering, or paying remuneration (a term interpreted broadly to include anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, and credits), directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order, or recommendation of, an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the medicare and medicaid programs; federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or making a false statement or record material to payment of a false claim or avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money owed to the federal government; provisions of the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, which created new federal criminal statutes, referred to as the hipaa all-payor fraud prohibition, that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters; federal transparency laws, including the federal physician payment sunshine act, which require manufacturers of certain drugs and biologics to track and disclose payments and other transfers of value they make to u.s. physicians and teaching hospitals as well as physician ownership and investment interests in the manufacturer, and that such information is subsequently made publicly available in a searchable format on a cms website; provisions of hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, state transparency reporting and compliance laws; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and which may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. ensuring that our future business arrangements with third-parties comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could involve substantial costs. if our operations are found to be in violation of any such requirements, we may be subject to penalties, including civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, or exclusion from participation in government contracting, healthcare reimbursement or other government programs, including medicare and medicaid, any of which could adversely affect financial results. although effective compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, these risks cannot be entirely eliminated. any action against us for an alleged or suspected violation could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and could divert our management's attention from the operation of our business, even if our defense is successful. in addition, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be costly to us in terms of money, time and resources. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in sufficient quantities that meet applicable quality standards, it could delay clinical studies, result in reduced sales or constitute a breach of our contractual obligations, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient drug quantities meeting applicable quality standards required to support large clinical studies or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner, it could delay our or our collaboration partners' clinical studies or result in a breach of our contractual obligations, which could in turn reduce the potential 39 commercial sales of our or our collaboration partners' products. as a result, we could incur substantial costs and damages and any product sales or royalty revenue that we would otherwise be entitled to receive could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. in some cases, we rely on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply drug product for our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners. pharmaceutical manufacturing of drugs and devices involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstratio n of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process and analytical methods validations, device performance and challenges in controlling fo r all of these variables. we have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract manufacturers required for drug and device supply to support our clinical studies and the clinic al studies and products of our collaboration partners. failure by us or our contract manufacturers to supply drug product or devices in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality requirements could result in supply shortages for our clinical st udies or the clinical studies and commercial activities of our collaboration partners. such failures could significantly and materially delay clinical trials and regulatory submissions or result in reduced sales, any of which could significantly harm our b usiness prospects, results of operations and financial condition. building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time consuming. in the past, we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. drug and device combination products are particularly complex, expensive and time-consuming to develop due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient and doctor use, maintenance of clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. there continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is validated and proven. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunities or contract liabilities to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations. any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing our costs. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, from which we receive upfront fees, contract research payments, milestone and other contingent payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties and manufacturing revenue. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from significant payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch or the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. the application of the accounting standards codification (asc) 606, revenue recognition - revenue from contracts with customers , which will apply beginning in the first quarter of 2018, may have a material impact on revenue recognition under our collaboration agreements. our past revenue generated from collaboration agreements is not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. if any of our existing or future collaboration partners fails to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture or ultimately commercialize any product candidate under our collaboration agreement, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 40 if we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilitie or to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates successfully. we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. to commercialize any of our drugs that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming, or enter into collaboration arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly or indirectly with our partners include: our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to use or prescribe our products; the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. if we, or our partners through our collaborations, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. to the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and over which we have little or no control important examples of this risk include movantik partnered with astrazeneca and adynovate (previously referred to as bax 855) partnered with baxalta. in the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment, and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. for the year ended december 31, 2017, we reported a net loss of $96.7 million. if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone and other contingent payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop drugs utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies; effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of the clinical studies for nktr-214, nktr-358, nktr-262, and nktr-255; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; 41 achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. if government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of coverage and payment or reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government programs, including medicare and medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. however, eligibility for coverage does not necessarily signify that a drug candidate will be adequately reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers costs related to research, development, manufacture, sale, and distribution. third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit coverage or pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. for example, congress passed the affordable care act in 2010 which enacted a number of reforms to expand access to health insurance while also reducing or constraining the growth of healthcare spending, enhancing remedies against fraud and abuse, adding new transparency requirements for healthcare industries, and imposing new taxes on fees on healthcare industry participants, among other policy reforms. federal agencies, congress and state legislatures have continued to show interest in implementing cost containment programs to limit the growth of health care costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and other fundamental changes to the healthcare delivery system. in addition, in recent years, congress has enacted various laws seeking to reduce the federal debt level and contain healthcare expenditures, and the medicare and other healthcare programs are frequently identified as potential targets for spending cuts. new government legislation or regulations related to pricing or other fundamental changes to the healthcare delivery system as well as a government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage or reimbursement of, our products hold the potential to severely limit market opportunities of such products. we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. we rely heavily on these parties for the successful execution of our clinical trials. though we are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trials, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or the failure of third parties to properly conduct our clinical trials could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include biogen inc., savient pharmaceuticals, inc., dr. reddy's laboratories ltd., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing polymer conjugation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. 42 there are many competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in developm ent. for movantik , there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including symproic (naldemedine) from shionogi and purdue pharma l.p., relistor subcutaneo us injection (methylnaltrexone bromide), oral therapy amitizia (lubiprostone), and oral and rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. in addition, there are a number of companies developing p otential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated for the treatment of oic and obd in different patient populations, including merck &amp; co., inc., progenics pharmaceuticals, inc. in collaboration with salix pharma ceuticals, ltd., purdue pharma l.p. in collaboration with shionogi &amp; co., ltd., mundipharma int. limited, sucampo pharmaceuticals, inc., develco pharma gmbh, alkermes plc, glaxosmithkline plc, theravance, inc., and takeda pharmaceutical company limited. fo r adynovate , o n june 6, 2014, the fda approved biogen idec's fc fusion protein eloctate tm for the control and prevention of bleeding episodes, perioperative (surgical) management and routine prophylaxis in adults and children with hemophilia a. longer ac ting factor viii proteins based on polymer conjugation technology approaches are being pursued by bayer healthcare llc (which has filed for regulatory approval in the u.s.) and novo nordisk (which has an ongoing phase 3 clinical development program). in a ddition, technologies other than those based on fc fusion and polymer conjugation approaches (such as gene therapy) are being pursued to treat patients with hemophilia a. for nktr-181, t here are numerous companies developing pain therapies designed to hav e less abuse potential primarily through formulation technologies and techniques applied to existing pain therapies. potential competitors include acura pharmaceuticals, inc., cara therapeutics, inc., collegium pharmaceutical, inc., egalet ltd, elite pharm aceuticals, inc., endo health solutions inc., kempharm, inc., pfizer, inc., purdue pharma l.p., and teva pharmaceutical industries ltd. for onzeald tm there are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinica l development for breast cancer, including, but not limited to: abraxane (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension (albumin bound)), xeloda (capecitabine), afinitor (everolimus), doxil (doxorubicin hcl), ellence (epirubicin), gemza r (gemcitabine), halaven (eribulin), herceptin (trastuzumab), hycamtin (topotecan), ibrance (palbociclib), ixempra (ixabepilone), navelbine (vinolrebine), iniparib, paraplatin (carboplatin), taxol (paclitaxel) and taxotere (docetaxel). major phar maceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for breast cancers include, but are not limited to, bristol-myers squibb company, eli lilly &amp; co., roche, glaxosmithkline plc, johnson and johnson, pfizer inc., eisai inc., a nd sanofi aventis s.a. for nktr-214, there are numerous companies engaged in developing immunotherapies to be used alone, or in combination, to treat a wide range of oncology indications targeting both solid and liquid tumors. in particular, we expect to compete with therapies with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, or tils, chimeric antigen receptor-expressing t cells, or car-t, cytokine-based therapies, and checkpoint inhibitors. potential competitors in the til and car-t space include kite pharma/nci, ada ptimmune llc, celgene corporation, juno therapeutics, and novartis, alkermes, altor, and armo in the cytokine-based therapies space, and tesaro, macrogenics, merck, bms, and roche in the checkpoint inhibitor space. for nktr 358, there are a number of compe titors in various stages of clinical development that are working on programs which are designed to correct the underlying immune system imbalance in the body due to autoimmune disease. in particular, we expect to compete with therapies that could be cytok ine-based therapies (symbiotix, llc and tizona therapeutics), regulatory t cell therapies (targazyme, inc., juno therapeutics and tract therapeutics, inc.), or il-2-based and toleragen-based therapies (celgene corporation, amgen inc., tolera therapeutics, inc., and caladrius biosciences, inc.). there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. 43 our internal computer systems, or those of our cros or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our product development programs or the theft of our confidential information or patient confidential information. despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our contract research organizations (cros) and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. such events could cause interruptions of our operations. for instance, the loss of preclinical data or data from any future clinical trial involving our product candidates could result in delays in our development and regulatory filing efforts and significantly increase our costs. to the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information of our company or clinical patients, we could suffer or be subject to reputational harm, monetary fines, civil suits, civil penalties or criminal sanctions and requirements to disclose the breach, and other forms of liability, and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, research, regulatory and finance, and may need to attract and retain marketing and distribution experts and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if earthquakes or other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and own and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be 44 significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partner may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential conseque nces to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in a ddition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then-current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefit plan, which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. the price of our common stock is expected to remain volatile. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2017, based on closing prices on the nasdaq global select market, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $11.75 to $60.50 per share. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, including the risks described in this section titled risk factors and the following: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch in particular, data from clinical studies of nktr-214 has had a significant impact on our stock price; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to drug candidates and approved drugs in which we have a substantial economic interest; announcements regarding terminations or disputes under our collaboration agreements; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; 45 our financing needs and activities; and general market conditions. at times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments. the stock prices of biotechnology companies and securities markets generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years. the indenture governing our 7.75% senior secured notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. on october 5, 2015, we issued $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior secured notes due october 2020. the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to take various actions, including, among other things: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified capital stock or cause certain of our subsidiaries to issue preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions, redeem equity interests or subordinated indebtedness or make certain types of investments; create or incur liens; transfer, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets and issue or sell equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries; incur restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or other distributions to the company or to make intercompany loans, advances or asset transfers; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in any business other than businesses which are the same, similar, ancillary or reasonably related to our business as of the date of the indenture; and consummate a merger, consolidation, reorganization or business combination, sell, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or other change of control transaction. this indenture also requires us to maintain a minimum cash and investments in marketable securities balance of $60.0 million. we have certain reporting obligations under the indenture regarding cash position and royalty revenue. the indenture specifies a number of events of default, some of which are subject to applicable grace or cure periods, including, among other things, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, non-payment of material judgments, loss of any material business license, criminal indictment of the company, and certain civil forfeiture proceedings involving material assets of the company. our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by many factors, including events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those requirements. our failure to comply with our obligations could result in an event of default under our other indebtedness and the acceleration of our other indebtedness, in whole or in part, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the senior secured notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in short-term securities and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $1.1 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2017. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2017. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.8 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2016. as of december 31, 2017, we held $347.3 million of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of eight months. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. based on our available cash and our expected operating cash requirements, we currently do not intend to sell these securities prior to maturity and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities before we recover the amortized cost basis. accordingly, we believe there are no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities and have not recorded any provisions for impairment. foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities outside the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the indian rupee, and we therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 63risk factors 30 ri sk factors we are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. we note these factors for investors as permitted by section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business we are highly dependent on the success of nktr-214, our lead i-o candidate. we are executing a broad development program for nktr-214 and clinical and regulatory outcomes for nktr-214, if not successful, will significantly harm our business. our future success is highly dependent on our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize nktr-214. in general, most early stage investigatory drugs, including oncology drug candidates such as nktr-214, do not become approved drugs. accordingly, there is a very meaningful risk that nktr-214 will not succeed in one or more clinical trials sufficient to support one or more regulatory approvals. to date, reported clinical outcomes from nktr-214 have had a significant impact on our market valuation, financial position, and business prospects and we expect this to continue in future periods. if one or more clinical studies of nktr-214 are delayed or not successful, it would materially harm our market valuation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. for example, under the bms collaboration agreement, we are entitled to up to $1.43 billion in development milestones that are based upon clinical and regulatory successes from the nktr-214 development program. one or more failures in nktr-214 studies could jeopardize such milestone payments, and any product sales or royalty revenue or commercial milestones that we would otherwise be entitled to receive could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. delays in clinical studies are common and have many causes, and any significant delay in clinical studies being conducted by us or our partners could result in delay in regulatory approvals and jeopardize the ability to proceed to commercialization. we or our partners may experience delays in clinical trials of drug candidates. we have ongoing trials evaluating nktr-214 including a trial evaluating nktr-214 as a potential combination treatment with bms's opdivo (nivolumab) as well as other ongoing and planned combination trials. we also have an ongoing phase 1 multiple-ascending dose trial to evaluate nktr-358 in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. we also continue to enroll patients in a phase 1/2 study evaluating nktr-214 in combination with nktr-262. these and other clinical studies may not begin on time, enroll a sufficient number of patients or be completed on schedule, if at all. clinical trials for any of our product candidates could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: delays in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a clinical study; delays in reaching agreement with applicable regulatory authorities on a clinical study design; imposition of a clinical hold by the fda or other health authorities, which may occur at any time including after any inspection of clinical trial operations or trial sites; suspension or termination of a clinical study by us, our partners, the fda or foreign regulatory authorities due to adverse side effects of a drug on subjects in the trial; delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; delays in having patients complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; clinical sites dropping out of a trial to the detriment of enrollment rates; delays in manufacturing and delivery of sufficient supply of clinical trial materials; and changes in regulatory authorities policies or guidance applicable to our drug candidates. if the initiation or completion of any of the planned clinical studies for our drug candidates is delayed for any of the above or other reasons, the regulatory approval process would be delayed and the ability to commercialize and commence sales of these drug candidates could be materially harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. clinical study delays could also shorten any commercial periods during which our products have patent protection and may allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, which could impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations. 30 the outcomes from competitive i-o and combination therapy clinical trials, and the discovery and development of new potential oncology therapies, could have a material and adverse impact on the value of our i-o research and development pipeline. the research and development of i-o therapies is a very competitive global segment in the biopharmaceutical industry attracting billions of dollars of investment each year. our clinical trial plans for nktr-214, nktr-262, and nktr-255 face substantial competition from other i-o combination regimens already approved, and many more combination therapies that are either ahead of or in parallel development in patient populations where we are studying our drug candidates. i-o drug development entails substantial risks and uncertainties that include rapidly changing standards of care, patient enrollment competition, evolving regulatory frameworks to evaluate combination regimens, and varying risk-benefit profiles of competing therapies, any or all of which could have a material and adverse impact on the probability of success of i-o drug candidates. drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. we have a number of proprietary drug candidates and partnered drug candidates in research and development ranging from the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive, difficult to design and implement and highly uncertain as to outcome. it will take us or our collaborative partners many years to conduct extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. the start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our and our partners' financial constraints. drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of preclinical and clinical development. typically, there is a high rate of attrition for drug candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care (including commercialization of a competing therapy in the same or similar indication for which our drug candidate is being studied) and other variables (such as commercial supply challenges). the risk of failure increases for our drug candidates that are based on new technologies, such as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to nktr-214, nktr-358, nktr-262, nktr-255, nktr-181, onzeald , and other drug candidates currently in discovery research or preclinical development. the failure of one or more of our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the risk of clinical failure for any drug candidate remains high prior to regulatory approval. a number of companies have suffered significant unforeseen failures in clinical studies due to factors such as inconclusive efficacy or safety, even after achieving preclinical proof-of-concept or positive results from earlier clinical studies that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing regulatory authorities. clinical study outcomes remain very unpredictable and it is possible that one or more of our clinical studies could fail at any time due to efficacy, safety or other important clinical findings or regulatory requirements. the results from preclinical testing or early clinical trials of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in later phase clinical trials of the product candidate. we, the fda, an independent institutional review board (irb), an independent ethics committee, or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time for various reasons, including a belief that patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or adverse side effects. similarly, an irb or ethics committee may suspend a clinical trial at a particular trial site. if one or more of our drug candidates fail in clinical studies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in sufficient quantities that meet applicable quality standards, it could delay clinical studies, result in reduced sales or constitute a breach of our contractual obligations, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient drug quantities meeting applicable quality standards required to support large clinical studies or commercial manufacturing in a timely manner, it could delay our or our collaboration partners' clinical studies or result in a breach of our contractual obligations, which could in turn reduce the potential commercial sales of our or our collaboration partners' products. as a result, we could incur substantial costs and damages and any product sales or royalty revenue that we would otherwise be entitled to receive could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. in most cases, we rely on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply drug product for our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners. the manufacturing of drugs involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstration of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process and analytical methods validations, and challenges in controlling for all of these variables. we have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract 31 manufacturers required for api and drug product supply to support our c linical studies and the clinical studies and products of our collaboration partners. failure by us or our contract manufacturers to supply api or drug products in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality requirements could result in supply sh ortages for our clinical studies or the clinical studies and commercial activities of our collaboration partners. such failures could significantly and materially delay clinical trials and regulatory submissions or result in reduced sales, any of which cou ld significantly harm our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. building and validating large-scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and time-consuming. in the past, we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical development. there continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is validated and proven. we purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. we often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers, which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunities or contract liabilities to third parties. for example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers, for the raw materials included in our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations. any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing our costs. our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to laws and other governmental regulatory requirements, which, if not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we and our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp), including cgmp guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients and drug products, and with laws and regulations governing manufacture and distribution of controlled substances, and are subject to inspections by the fda, the drug enforcement administration or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions administering such requirements. we anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers' adherence to such cgmp and other laws and governmental regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures, administrative detention, or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. regulatory inspections could result in costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the fda that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cgmp. manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers, pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. we or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. drug candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive review process for safety and efficacy by the fda and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. the time required for obtaining regulatory decisions is uncertain and difficult to predict. the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical studies, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. for example, while data from certain pre-specified subgroups in our beacon study for onzeald in 2015 was positive, the study did not achieve statistical significance for its primary endpoint and the fda and european medicines agency rarely approve drugs on the basis of studies that do not achieve statistical significance on the primary endpoint. further, regulatory authorities have the discretion to analyze data using their own methodologies that may differ from those 32 used by us or our partners, which could lead such authorities to arrive at different conclusions regarding the safety or efficacy of a drug candidate. in addition, undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities. for example, astrazeneca is conducting a p ost-marketing, observational epidemiological study comparing movantik to other treatments of opioid-induced constipation (oic) in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain and the results of this study could at some point in the future negatively impact the labeling, regulatory status, and commercial potential of movantik . even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. our and our partnered drugs that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities. discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. the failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. the nktr-181 program is subject to important risks and uncertainties related to likelihood of fda approval, commercial potential, and nonconvertibility of nktr-181, any of which could significantly and negatively impact the economic value of nktr-181. on may 31, 2018, we announced that we submitted an nda for nktr-181 and on july 30, 2018, we announced that the nda for nktr-181 for the treatment of chronic low back pain in opioid-na ve adult patients was accepted by the fda for review. the fda has assigned a pdufa target action date of august 29, 2019. while the results from the phase 3 study of nktr-181 were positive, and nktr-181 has fast track designation, the regulatory pathway for nktr-181 remains subject to substantial uncertainty including the amount of data required to support an approval of nktr-181. in addition, regulations concerning and controlling the access to opioid-based pharmaceuticals are strict and there is no guarantee which scheduling category will apply to nktr-181 if regulatory approval is achieved. the commercial potential of nktr-181 remains difficult to predict due to factors that include, for example, the safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, scope and contents of the nktr-181 label, constraints on marketing, patient and physician preferences, drug scheduling status, current and future litigation involving analgesic pharmaceuticals, perceived or actual resistance to the introduction of new controlled substances to the market, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during or after approval, the availability of generic versions of our nktr-181, and the countries in which we receive regulatory approvals. if the market potential for nktr-181 is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial potential and value of nktr-181. in the event that we commercialize and market nktr-181 products, we would be required to build, either internally or through third-party contracts, a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment, and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. an important objective of our nktr-181 drug development program is to create a unique opioid molecule that does not rapidly enter a patient's central nervous system, thereby having the potential to be less susceptible to abuse than alternative opioid therapies. to date, we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have been unable to convert nktr-181 into a rapidly-acting, more abusable form of opioid. in the future, an alternative chemistry technique, process or method of administration, or combination thereof, may be discovered to enable the conversion of nktr-181 into a more abusable opioid. if nktr-181 is approved by fda, the ability to market and promote nktr-181 will depend on the scope and content of the final fda-approved labeling, which could have a material and adverse impact on the market potential of nktr-181. if nktr-181 is approved by the fda, the commercial success of nktr-181 will be materially impacted by the fda-approved label which will set forth the patient population covered by the approved indication in the label, the required warnings, a description of efficacy outcomes, and the human abuse potential profile of nktr-181, among other matters, for healthcare providers and patients. fda approval is required to make safety and efficacy claims regarding a product. as a result, there is substantial risk and uncertainty regarding the content of the final label and package insert for nktr-181, if approved by fda, which could materially and adversely impact the commercial potential of nktr-181. our results of operations and financial condition depend significantly on the ability of our collaboration partners to successfully develop and market drugs and they may fail to do so. under our collaboration agreements with various pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies (other than the bms collaboration agreement), our collaboration partner is generally solely responsible for: designing and conducting large scale clinical studies; preparing and filing documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug candidate; and/or 33 mark eting and selling the drugs when and if they are approved. our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of significant risks to our business, including risks that: we have very little control over the timing and level of resources that our collaboration partners dedicate to commercial marketing efforts such as the amount of investment in sales and marketing personnel, general marketing campaigns, direct-to-consumer advertising, product sampling, pricing agreements and rebate strategies with government and private payers, manufacturing and supply of drug product, and other marketing and selling activities that need to be undertaken and well executed for a drug to have the potential to achieve commercial success; collaboration partners with commercial rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered drugs than they devote to their own drugs or other drugs that they have in-licensed; we have very little control over the timing and amount of resources our partners devote to development programs in one or more major markets; disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to litigation or arbitration proceedings; disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners; we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy; partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in other cases with no termination fee penalty. given these risks, the success of our current and future collaboration partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative impact on our business. if the approved drugs fail to achieve commercial success or the drugs in development fail to have positive late stage clinical outcomes sufficient to support regulatory approval in major markets, it could significantly impair our access to capital necessary to fund our research and development efforts for our proprietary drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital resources to advance our drug candidate pipeline, it would negatively impact the value of our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. if we do not receive substantial milestone or royalty payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaborations or other arrangements, or are unable to raise additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our current level of investment in research and development. as of december 31, 2018, we had cash and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $1.9 billion and had debt of $250.0 million in principal of senior secured notes. our cash and investments balance at december 31, 2018 reflects $1.85 billion received from bms. as described above and in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, in february 2018, we entered into the bms collaboration agreement under which bms paid us a non-refundable upfront cash payment of $1.0 billion on april 3, 2018. we also entered into the share purchase agreement under which bms purchased $850.0 million of shares of our common stock on april 3, 2018. while we believe that our cash position will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous unpredictable factors, including: the cost, timing and outcomes of clinical studies and regulatory reviews of our proprietary drug candidates that we have licensed to our collaboration partners important examples include nktr-214 in collaboration with bms and nktr-358 licensed to lilly; the commercial launch and sales levels of products marketed by our collaboration partners for which we are entitled to royalties and sales milestones importantly, the level of success in marketing and selling movantik by astrazeneca in the u.s. and adynovate by baxalta (a wholly-owned subsidiary of takeda) globally, as well as moventig (the naloxegol brand name in the eu) by kirin in the eu; if and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties from our existing collaborations if the drug candidates subject to those collaborations achieve clinical, regulatory or commercial success; the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs; 34 the success, progress, timing and costs of our efforts to implement new collaborations, licenses and other transactions that increase our current net cash, such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us, term loan or other debt arrangements, and the issuance of securities; the number of patients, enrollment criteria, primary and secondary endpoints, and the number of clinical studies required by the regulatory authorities in order to consider for approval our drug candidates and those of our collaboration partners; our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; and disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements that negatively impact our receipt of milestone payments or royalties or require us to make significant payments arising from licenses, settlements, adverse judgments or ongoing royalties. a significant multi-year capital commitment is required to advance our drug candidates through the various stages of research and development in order to generate sufficient data to enable high value collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments or to successfully achieve regulatory approval. in the event we do not enter into any new collaboration partnerships with significant upfront payments and we choose to continue our later stage research and development programs, we may need to pursue financing alternatives, including dilutive equity-based financings, such as an offering of convertible debt or common stock, which would dilute the percentage ownership of our current common stockholders and could significantly lower the market value of our common stock. if sufficient capital is not available to us or is not available on commercially reasonable terms, it could require us to delay or reduce one or more of our research and development programs. if we are unable to sufficiently advance our research and development programs, it could substantially impair the value of such programs and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict. if the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipate, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. it is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, patient and physician preferences, drug scheduling status, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our product candidates following approval by regulatory authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market by asserting our patents. if due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a drug candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial potential of the drug candidate, the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such drug candidate, or if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and this would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also depend on our relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and the commercialization of product candidates. poor performance by these companies, or disputes with these companies, could negatively impact our revenue and financial condition. if government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of coverage and payment or reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government programs, including medicare and medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. however, eligibility for coverage does not necessarily signify that a drug candidate will be adequately reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers costs related to research, development, manufacture, sale, and distribution. third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit coverage or pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party payers. for example, congress passed the affordable care act in 2010 which enacted a number of reforms to expand access to health insurance while also reducing or constraining the growth of healthcare spending, enhancing remedies against fraud and abuse, adding new transparency requirements for healthcare industries, and imposing new taxes 35 on fees on healthcare industry participants, among other policy reforms. federal agencies, congress and state legislatures have continued to show interest in implementing cost containment programs to limit the growth of health care costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and other fundamental changes to the healthcare delivery system. in addition, in recent y ears, congress has enacted various laws seeking to reduce the federal debt level and contain healthcare expenditures, and the medicare and other healthcare programs are frequently identified as potential targets for spending cuts. new government legislatio n or regulations related to pricing or other fundamental changes to the healthcare delivery system as well as a government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage or reimbursement of, our products hold the pot ential to severely limit market opportunities of such products. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. we intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and development capital requirements. the timing of new collaboration partnerships is difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the outcomes from our clinical studies, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. if we are unable to find suitable partners or negotiate collaboration arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future drug candidates or the licensing of our intellectual property, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have negotiated, are terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, from which we receive upfront fees, contract research payments, milestone and other contingent payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties and product sales. significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch or the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. the amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. our past revenue generated from collaboration agreements is not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. if any of our existing or future collaboration partners fails to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture or ultimately commercialize any product candidate under our collaboration agreement, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, substantially all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. these collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including: clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of our partner's performance; research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered drug candidate development programs; clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies; intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the collaboration; royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent life, generic competitors, bundled pricing and other factors; and indemnity obligations for intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. 36 we are a party to numerous significant collaboration agreements and other strategic transaction agreements (e.g., financings and asset divestitures) that contain complex representation and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations. if we are found to have materially breached such agreements, it could subject us to substantial liabilities and harm our financial condition. from time to time, we are involved in litigation matters involving the interpretation and application of complex terms and conditions of our agreements. one or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we, or our partners through our collaborations, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. to the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and over which we have little or no control important examples of this risk include movantik partnered with astrazeneca and adynovate (previously referred to as bax 855) partnered with baxalta (a wholly-owned subsidiary of takeda). in the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build, either internally or through third-party contracts, a sales and marketing organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment, and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. if we are unable to create robust sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates successfully . we currently have no sales or distribution capabilities. to commercialize any of our drugs that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must develop robust internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, and manage inventory, supply, labeling, storage, record keeping, and advertising and promotion capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming, or enter into collaboration arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly or through partnerships include: our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or successfully educate adequate numbers of physicians about the potential benefits associated with the use of, and to subsequently prescribe, our products; the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. we depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. we depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. we rely heavily on these parties for the successful execution of our clinical trials. though we are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. for example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trials, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products to us in an untimely manner. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. the early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or the failure of third parties to properly conduct our clinical trials could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 37 we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from o perations and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. due to the recognition of $1,059.8 million of revenue from the upfront payment of our bms collaboration agreement as described in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, for the year ended december 31, 2018, we reported net income of $681.3 million. excluding this revenue item, if and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone and other contingent payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to: develop drugs utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies; effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of the clinical studies for nktr-214, nktr-358, nktr-262, nktr-255, and onzeald ; receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; achieve market acceptance of our partnered products; receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. our advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. competitors of our polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include biogen inc., savient pharmaceuticals, inc., dr. reddy's laboratories ltd., sunbio corporation, mountain view pharmaceuticals, inc., novo nordisk a/s (formerly assets held by neose technologies, inc.), and nof corporation. several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing polymer conjugation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use. there are many competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. for nktr-214, there are numerous companies engaged in developing immunotherapies to be used alone, or in combination, to treat a wide range of oncology indications targeting both solid and liquid tumors. in particular, we expect to compete with therapies with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, or tils, chimeric antigen receptor-expressing t cells, or car-t, cytokine-based therapies, and checkpoint inhibitors. potential competitors in the til and car-t space include gilead sciences, inc. (through its acquisition of kite pharma, inc.)/nci, apeiron biologics, philogen s.p.a., irx therapeutics, anaveon ag, adaptimmune llc, and novartis ag, alkermes plc, altor bioscience, roche, synthorx, inc., and eli lilly &amp; co. (through its acquisition of armo biosciences) in the cytokine-based therapies space, and tesaro, inc., macrogenics, inc., merck, bristol-myers squibb company, and roche in the checkpoint inhibitor space. for nktr 358, there are a number of competitors in various stages of clinical development that are working on programs which are designed to correct the underlying immune system imbalance in the body due to autoimmune disease. in particular, we expect to compete with therapies that could be cytokine-based therapies (symbiotix, llc and tizona therapeutics), regulatory t cell therapies (targazyme, inc., caladrius biosciences, inc., and tract therapeutics, inc.), or il-2-based-therapies (amgen inc.). for movantik , there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (oic) and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (obd), including relistor subcutaneous injection (methylnaltrexone bromide), oral therapy amitiza (lubiprostone), and oral and rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. for adynovate , there is substantial competition from sanofi's fc fusion protein eloctate tm for hemophilia a treatment, jivi (antihemophilic factor (recombinant) pegylated-aucl, an extended half-life factor viii for hemophilia a treatment, approved in the u.s. in august 2018, and marketed by bayer healthcare, and novo nordisk which is expected to launch an extended half-life product in 2020. in addition, technologies other than those based on fc fusion and polymer conjugation approaches (such as gene therapy approaches being developed by biomarin pharmaceutical inc. and others) are being pursued to treat patients with hemophilia a. for nktr-181, there are numerous companies developing pain therapies designed to have less abuse potential primarily through formulation technologies and techniques applied to existing pain therapies. potential competitors include acura 38 pharmaceuticals, inc., cara therapeutics, inc., collegium pharmaceutical, inc., egalet ltd, elite pharmaceuticals, inc., endo health solutions inc., kempharm, inc., pfizer/eli lilly &amp; co., purdue pharma l.p., and regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc./teva pharmaceutical industries ltd. for onzeald there are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for breast cancer, including, but not limited to: abraxane (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension (albumin bound)), xeloda (capecitabine), afinitor (everolimus), ellence (epirubicin), gemzar (gemcitabine ), halaven (eribulin), herceptin (trastuzumab), ixempra (ixabepilone), navelbine (vinolrebine), and taxotere (docetaxel). major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for breast cancers include, but are n ot limited to, bristol-myers squibb company, eli lilly &amp; co., roche, glaxosmithkline plc, pfizer inc., eisai inc., and sanofi aventis s.a. there can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and comm ercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of our competitors . many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. we face compet ition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic instit utions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. as a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. these developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. we may not be able to manage our growth effectively, which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. the ability to manage and operate our business as we execute our development and growth strategy will require effective planning. significant rapid growth could strain our management and internal resources, and other problems may arise that could adversely affect our financial performance. we expect that our efforts to grow will place a significant strain on personnel, management systems, infrastructure and other resources. our ability to effectively manage future growth will also require us to successfully attract, train, motivate, retain and manage new employees and continue to update and improve our operational, financial and management controls and procedures. if we do not manage our growth effectively, our operations and financial performance could be adversely affected. our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses. our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates. our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. if we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need to support our operations and growth. we must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, research, regulatory and finance, and may need to attract and retain commercial, marketing and distribution experts and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. we face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. our equity incentive plan and employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. if we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. we are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial 39 con dition. the relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. we are also dependent on the continued services of our technical personnel because of the highly tec hnical nature of our products and the regulatory approval process. because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. we do no t have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. the price of our common stock has, and may continue to fluctuate significantly, which could result in substantial losses for investors and securities class action litigation. our stock price is volatile. during the year ended december 31, 2018, based on closing prices on the nasdaq global select market, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $30.43 to $108.44 per share. plaintiffs' securities litigation firms have recently publicly announced that they are investigating a potential breach of fiduciary duty claim involving our board of directors. additionally, on october 30, 2018, the company and its ceo and cfo were named in a putative securities class action entitled, mulquin v. nektar therapeutics et. al., n.d. cal. also, on february 13, 2019, and february 18, 2019, shareholder derivative complaints were filed in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware naming the ceo, cfo and certain members of nektar's board. both the class action and shareholder derivative actions assert, among other things, that for a period beginning at least from november 11, 2017 through october 2, 2018, the company's stock was inflated due to alleged misrepresentations about the efficacy and safety of nktr-214. we expect our stock price to remain volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, including the risks described in this section titled risk factors and the following: announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch in particular, data from clinical studies of nktr-214 has had a significant impact on our stock price; announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to drug candidates and approved drugs in which we have a substantial economic interest; announcements regarding terminations or disputes under our collaboration agreements; fluctuations in our results of operations; developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development; announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; our financing needs and activities; and general market conditions. at times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments. the stock prices of biotechnology companies and securities markets generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years. we have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. these anti-takeover provisions include: establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; 40 prohibition on stock holder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. further, provisions of delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. these provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then-current market prices. we also have a change of control severance benefit plan, which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. this severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us. the indenture governing our 7.75% senior secured notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. on october 5, 2015, we issued $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior secured notes due october 2020. the indenture governing the senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to take various actions, including, among other things: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified capital stock or cause certain of our subsidiaries to issue preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions, redeem equity interests or subordinated indebtedness or make certain types of investments; create or incur liens; transfer, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets and issue or sell equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries; incur restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or other distributions to the company or to make intercompany loans, advances or asset transfers; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in any business other than businesses which are the same, similar, ancillary or reasonably related to our business as of the date of the indenture; and consummate a merger, consolidation, reorganization or business combination, sell, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or other change of control transaction. this indenture also requires us to maintain a minimum cash and investments in marketable securities balance of $60.0 million. we have certain reporting obligations under the indenture regarding cash position and royalty revenue. the indenture specifies a number of events of default, some of which are subject to applicable grace or cure periods, including, among other things, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, non-payment of material judgments, loss of any material business license, criminal indictment of the company, and certain civil forfeiture proceedings involving material assets of the company. our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by many factors, including events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those requirements. our failure to comply with our obligations could result in an event of default under our other indebtedness and the acceleration of our other indebtedness, in whole or in part, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the senior secured notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. preliminary and interim data from our clinical studies that we announce or publish from time to time are subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the final data and may change as more patient data become available. from time to time, we publish preliminary or interim data from our clinical studies. preliminary data remain subject to audit confirmation and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. interim data are also subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as 41 patient e nrollment continues and more patient data become available. as a result, preliminary and interim data should be viewed with caution until the final data are available. material adverse changes in the final data could significantly harm our business prospec ts. we may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our drug candidates on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. numerous pending and issued u.s. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, methods of preparation and manufacturing, and methods of use and administration. we cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our or our collaboration partners' technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. in certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties; however, the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during long development and commercialization cycles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. if we are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. if a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be prevented from developing and commercializing the drug, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual property protection. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. we own more than 275 u.s. and 850 foreign patents and have a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. there can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be held valid and enforceable in a court of law. even for patents that are held valid and enforceable, the legal process associated with obtaining such a judgment is time consuming and costly. additionally, issued patents can be subject to opposition, inter partes review or other proceedings that can result in the revocation of the patent or maintenance of the patent in amended form (and potentially in a form that renders the patent without commercially relevant and/or broad coverage). further, our competitors may be able to circumvent and otherwise design around our patents. even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following the commercialization of products encompassed by our patents. we may have to participate in post grant or inter parties review before the u.s. patent and trademark office, which could result in a loss of the patent and/or substantial cost to us. we have filed patent applications, and plan to file additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our pegylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. there can be no assurance that the patent applications for which we apply would actually issue as patents, or do so with commercially relevant and/or broad coverage. the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. the scope of our claim coverage can be critical to our ability to enter into licensing transactions with third parties and our right to receive royalties from our collaboration partnerships. since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. in addition, there is no guarantee that we will be the first to file a patent application directed to an invention. an adverse outcome in any judicial proceeding involving intellectual property, including patents, could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. in those instances where we seek an intellectual property license from another, we may not be able to obtain the license on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all, thereby raising concerns on our ability to freely commercialize our technologies or products. we rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. 42 the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products involve inherent product liability risks. if pro duct liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. if we or current or future collaborators or service providers fail to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties. although we do not currently have any products on the market, once we begin commercializing our drug candidates, we will be subject to additional healthcare statutory and regulatory requirements and enforcement by the federal and state governments of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payers play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any drug candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. our future arrangements with third-party payers and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our therapeutic candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering, or paying remuneration (a term interpreted broadly to include anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, and credits), directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order, or recommendation of, an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the medicare and medicaid programs; federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or making a false statement or record material to payment of a false claim or avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money owed to the federal government; provisions of the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa), which created new federal criminal statutes, referred to as the hipaa all-payer fraud prohibition, that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters; federal transparency laws, including the federal physician payment sunshine act, which require manufacturers of certain drugs and biologics to track and disclose payments and other transfers of value they make to u.s. physicians and teaching hospitals as well as physician ownership and investment interests in the manufacturer, and that such information is subsequently made publicly available in a searchable format on a cms website; provisions of hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, state transparency reporting and compliance laws; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and which may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. ensuring that our future business arrangements with third-parties comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could involve substantial costs. if our operations are found to be in violation of any such requirements, we may be subject to penalties, including civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, or exclusion from participation in government contracting, healthcare reimbursement or other government programs, including medicare and medicaid, any of which could adversely affect financial results. although effective compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, these risks cannot be entirely eliminated. any action against us for an alleged or suspected violation could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and could divert our management's attention from the operation of our business, even if our defense is successful. in addition, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be costly to us in terms of money, time and resources. we are involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 43 from time to time, third parties have asserted, an d may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our obligations to them. a third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our tec hnology platform or drug candidates or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. similar assertions of infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. in certain of our agreements with our part ners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our collaboration partners from intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and liability if we are called upon to def end ourselves and our partners against any claims. if a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, c ertain drugs or drug candidates in the u.s. and abroad. costs associated with litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial co ndition and results of operations. we are involved in legal proceedings where we or other third parties are enforcing or seeking intellectual property rights, invalidating or limiting patent rights that have already been allowed or issued, or otherwise asserting proprietary rights through one or more potential legal remedies. for example, we are currently involved in a german litigation proceedings whereby bayer is seeking co-ownership rights in certain of our patent filings pending at the european patent office covering, among other things, pegylated factor viii which we have exclusively licensed to baxalta (a wholly-owned subsidiary of takeda). the subject matter of our patent filings in this proceeding relates to bayer's pegylated recombinant factor viii compound, bay 94-9027, now commercially marketed as jivi . we believe that bayer's claim to an ownership interest in these patent filings is without merit and are vigorously defending sole and exclusive ownership rights to this intellectual property. in addition, nektar has filed claims in germany seeking ownership rights of certain bayer patent applications. in the u.s., bayer filed a complaint against baxalta and nektar alleging the adynovate product infringes a bayer patent. although the u.s. court dismissed all of bayer's claims against nektar and nektar was removed as a defendant, a jury found the bayer patent was valid and infringed, and awarded bayer damages, the responsibility of which are borne fully by baxalta. this damages award does not impact our royalties from sales of adynovate under our collaboration with baxalta. in other u.s. proceedings, nektar and baxalta filed complaints against bayer healthcare alleging bayer's jivi product infringes a total of twelve nektar patents. in addition, in response to notices astrazeneca and we received from the generic companies, apotex (apotex inc. and apotex corp.) and msn laboratories pvt. ltd., alerting us that they had filed abbreviated new drug applications (andas) with the fda to market a generic version of movantik ( paragraph iv certifications ), astrazeneca and we together filed patent infringement suits against each of these generic companies in december 2018. in the paragraph iv certifications, both generic companies only alleged one patent, u.s. patent no. 9,012,469, was either invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of their respective genetic products. at this time, none of the other five orange book listed patents associated with movantik are being challenged by these generics companies. we are also regularly involved in opposition proceedings at the european patent office where third parties seek to invalidate or limit the scope of our allowed european patent applications covering (among other things) our drugs and platform technologies. the cost to us in initiating or defending any litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation would divert our management's attention. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could delay our research and development efforts or result in financial implications either in terms of seeking license arrangements or payment of damages or royalties. our internal computer systems, or those of our partners, vendors, cros or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our product development programs or the theft of our confidential information or patient confidential information. despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our partners, vendors, contract research organizations (cros) and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. such events could cause interruptions of our operations. for instance, the loss of preclinical data or data from any future clinical trial involving our product candidates could result in delays in our development and regulatory filing efforts and significantly increase our costs. to the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information of our company or clinical patients, we could suffer or be subject to reputational harm, monetary fines, civil suits, civil penalties or criminal sanctions and requirements to disclose the breach, and other forms of liability, and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. our operations and performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by global economic conditions. as a result of global economic conditions, some third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. job losses or other economic hardships may also affect patients' ability to afford healthcare as a result of increased co-pay or deductible obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or for other reasons. we believe 44 such conditions have led and could continue to lead to reduced demand for our and our collaboration partners' drug products, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. further, rising international trade tensions, new or increased tariffs and changes in the u.s. trade policy may increase the costs of materials and products imported into the u.s. and may adversely affect our business. tariffs, trade restrictions or sanctions imposed by the u.s. or other countries could increase the prices of our and our collaboration partners' drug products, affect our and our collaboration partners' ability to commercialize such drug products, or create adverse tax consequences in the u.s. or other countries. as a result, changes in international trade policy, changes in trade agreements and the imposition of tariffs or sanctions by the u.s. or other countries could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if earthquakes or other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed. our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential terrorist target. in addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our advanced polymer conjugate technologies in huntsville, alabama and own and lease offices in hyderabad, india. there are no backup facilities for our manufacturing operations located in huntsville, alabama. in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. our collaborative partners may also be subject to catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualit ative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. our investments in debt securities are subject to interest rate risk. to minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in securities with maturities of two years or less and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $6.7 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2018. this potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at december 31, 2018. actual results may differ materially. the same hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $1.1 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2017. as of december 31, 2018, we held $1.8 billion of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of eight months. to date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. we believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. based on our available cash and our expected operating cash requirements, we currently do not intend to sell these securities prior to maturity and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities before we recover the amortized cost basis. accordingly, we believe there are no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities and have not recorded any provisions for impairment. foreign currency risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we have contracts with contract manufacturing organizations in europe, transacted in the british pound sterling or euros. additionally, a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities outside the united states, with transactions in the indian rupee. finally, although our payments from our collaboration partners for our royalty revenues are in u.s. dollars, a portion of the payment is based on net sales in foreign currency translated into u.s. dollars for such period. accordingly, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk for these transactions. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. we do not believe that inflation has had a material adverse impact on our revenues or operations in any of the past three years. 64