risk factors 7 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. we operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. the markets for our services are highly competitive from new and existing competitors. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. as a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients' in-house capabilities. we also expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new well-funded competitors and new technologies, including large technology, media and other companies not historically in the financial services industry, start-ups and international providers of similar products and services to ours. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients, and our ability to grow may be limited. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services, and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. if we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients, to attract new ones and to grow profitably. the market for our electronic transaction services continues to evolve and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow, or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by a combination of factors including speed, cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. in addition, we may face challenges meeting local political, regulatory, business and economic conditions as we grow internationally, particularly in emerging market economies, and we may find it difficult to manage and oversee operations far from our headquarters. in order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. the success of our electronic commerce businesses also relies in part on financial institutions, billers and other third parties to market our services to their customers. if any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one or more of our competitors to provide products and services. if we are 7 table of contents not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we are exposed to the global economic conditions in the financial services industry. a prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. it is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches, computer malware or other cyber attacks could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. our operations depend on receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our associates, our clients and their customers. any unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service or similar act by a malevolent party could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or data, or the systems or data of our clients or vendors. these events could create costly litigation, significant financial liability, increased regulatory scrutiny, financial sanctions and a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients and cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, as these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the threats that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, we may not be able to prevent a material event in the future, and the impact of a material event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational failures could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our transaction processing businesses, including our business continuity and disaster recovery capabilities, could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. an operational failure could be caused by the failure of third party networks and systems upon which we rely to deliver our services and over which we have limited or no control. interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. a prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. 8 table of contents a heightened regulatory environment in the financial services industry, including the implementation of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and related regulations, may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. since the enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ), there have been substantial regulations affecting the supervision and operation of the financial services industry within the united states, including the establishment of a new federal bureau called the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). the cfpb has issued guidance that applies to supervised service providers, which the cfpb has defined to include service providers, like us, to cfpb supervised banks and nonbanks. it is difficult to predict with certainty the extent to which the dodd-frank act, the cfpb or the resulting regulations will impact our business or the businesses of our current and potential clients over the long term. in addition, federal and state agencies are pursuing additional cybersecurity regulations and are expected to continue to seek to impact client contract terms with service providers like us. if government agencies, including the cfpb, adopt additional rules and exercise supervisory authority over service providers like us, we could be subject to a greater degree of direct federal and state oversight than in the past, which could slow our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry, require us to make compliance investments and/or limit our fees or other revenue sources. to the extent these regulations negatively impact the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. we could be required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to comply with additional regulations or oversight or to modify the manner in which we contract with or provide products and services to our clients; and such regulations could directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services. we may not be able to update our existing products and services, or develop new ones, to satisfy our clients' needs. any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. we are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, we are subject to contractual requirements imposed by the financial institutions with respect to a number of state and federal regulations, including privacy laws, and our operations are examined on a regular basis by various state and federal regulatory authorities. also, regulators are signaling interest in enforcing regulations directly against service providers to financial institutions, and any such direct enforcement could result in increased operating costs for us and additional restrictions on our business processes. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability. certain of our subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters in those states where such licensure is required. in connection with such licensure, we are required to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and to file periodic reports. in addition, our direct-to-consumer payments businesses, including our walk-in bill payment, online bill payment and popmoney person-to-person payment services, are subject to federal regulation in the united states, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers, or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. if we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the payment card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to card association and network rules governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover or other similar organizations, including the payment card industry data security standard enforced by the major card brands. the rules of the card networks are set by their boards which may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. if we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our certifications could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes to the card association and network rules, that we do not successfully address, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to 9 table of contents clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical, or we may need to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. we may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation and may require significant attention from our management and key personnel. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth, or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. we have in the past and may in the future sell businesses. in connection with sales of businesses, we may make representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agree to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. if we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, compliance and sales personnel, our future success could be harmed. our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. our products and services require 10 table of contents sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients' demands. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 74% of our total assets at december 31, 2016 . these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. in addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately $4.6 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. our senior management actively monitors these risks. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt. based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates at december 31, 2016 , a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2017 by approximately $13 million . in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested into short-term, highly liquid investments from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. subscriber funds are not included in our consolidated balance sheets and can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity. during 2016 , the subscriber funds daily average balance approximated $1.2 billion . a 1% increase or decrease in applicable interest rates would not have a material impact on our annual income from continuing operations. we conduct business in the united states and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. we have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with total notional values of approximately $86 million as of december 31, 2016 to hedge foreign currency exposure to the indian rupee. in 2016 , approximately 5% of our total revenue was from clients in foreign countries. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2016 , there would not have been a material impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position. 26 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. we operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. the markets for our services are highly competitive from new and existing competitors. our principal competitors include other vendors of financial services technology, data processing affiliates of large companies, and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. as a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients' in-house capabilities. we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new well-funded competitors and new technologies, including large technology, media and other companies not historically in the financial services industry, start-ups and international providers of similar products and services to ours. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients, and our ability to grow may be limited. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services, and increasing client expectations. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these demands or achieve market acceptance. in addition, the success of certain of our products and services rely, in part, on financial institutions, billers and other third parties to promote the use of our products and services by their customers. if we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance, or if third parties insufficiently promote our products and services, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients, to attract new ones and to grow profitably. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one or more of our competitors to provide products and services. if we are 7 table of contents not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. mergers, consolidations and failures of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. if our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. it is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches, computer malware or other cyber attacks could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. our operations depend on receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our associates, our clients and their customers. any unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service or similar act could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or data, or the systems or data of our clients or vendors. these events could create costly litigation, significant financial liability, increased regulatory scrutiny, financial sanctions and a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients and cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, as these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the threats that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, we may not be able to prevent a material event in the future, and the impact of a material event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational failures could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. an operational failure could be caused by our actions or the actions of third parties, and could involve networks and systems upon which we rely to deliver our services and over which we have limited or no control. interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. a prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computer systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. a heightened regulatory environment in the financial services industry may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. since the enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ), a number of substantial regulations affecting the supervision and operation of the financial services industry within the united states have been adopted, including those that establish the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). the cfpb has issued guidance that applies to, and conducts direct examinations of, supervised banks and nonbanks as well as supervised service providers like us. in addition, federal and state governments have adopted or are pursuing numerous additional regulations impacting the financial services industry, including regulations related to cybersecurity and data privacy. to the extent this oversight or regulation negatively impacts the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results 8 table of contents of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. additional regulation, examination and oversight of us could require us to modify the manner in which we contract with or provide products and services to our clients; directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services; require us to invest additional time and resources to comply with such oversight and regulations; or limit our ability to update our existing products and services, or require us to develop new ones. any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations, our businesses could be harmed. if we fail to comply with regulations applicable to our business, including data privacy regulations, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability. certain of our subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters in those states where such licensure is required. in connection with such licensure, we are required to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and to file periodic reports. in addition, our direct-to-consumer payments businesses, including our walk-in bill payment, online bill payment and popmoney person-to-person payment services, are subject to federal regulation in the united states, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers, or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. if we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the payment card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to card association and network rules governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover or other similar organizations, including the payment card industry data security standard enforced by the major card brands. the rules of the card networks are set by their boards which may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. if we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our certifications could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes to the card association and network rules, that we do not successfully address could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical, or we may need to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. we may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time-consuming litigation and may require significant attention from our management and key personnel. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. 9 table of contents misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth; or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we may face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. we have in the past and may in the future sell businesses. in connection with sales of businesses, we may make representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agree to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. if we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, compliance and sales personnel, our future success could be harmed. our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. our products and services require sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients' demands. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we are exposed to the global economic conditions in the financial services industry. a prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the market for our electronic transaction services continues to evolve and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow, or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by a combination of factors including speed, cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. 10 table of contents new guidance or further analysis of the newly enacted u.s. tax reform legislation could cause us to modify current estimates about the impact that it will have on us, which could negatively impact our anticipated earnings and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ). the tax act significantly revises the u.s. corporate income tax code by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a territorial-style tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. with the enactment of the tax act, our financial results for 2017 included a reduction of income tax expense of approximately $275 million resulting primarily from the re-evaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to reflect the recently enacted 21 percent u.s. federal corporate tax rate and the deemed repatriation tax on untaxed accumulated foreign earnings. these estimates are based on our initial analysis of the tax act. further analysis of this complex legislation or future guidance from the internal revenue service, the securities and exchange commission or the financial accounting standards board could cause us to adjust current estimates in future periods, which could impact our earnings and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 73% of our total assets at december 31, 2017 . these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. in addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately $4.9 billion of debt. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. our senior management actively monitors these risks. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt. based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates at december 31, 2017 , a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2018 by approximately $16 million . in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested into short-term, highly liquid investments from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. subscriber funds are not included in our consolidated balance sheets and can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity. during 2017 , the subscriber funds daily average balance approximated $1.2 billion . a 1% increase or decrease in applicable interest rates would not have a material impact on our annual income from continuing operations. we conduct business in the united states and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. we have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with total notional values of approximately $150 million as of december 31, 2017 to hedge foreign currency exposure to the indian rupee. in 2017 , approximately 5% of our total revenue was from clients in foreign countries. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2017 , there would not have been a material impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position. 26 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks relating to our existing business we operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. the markets for our services are highly competitive from new and existing competitors. our principal competitors include other vendors of financial services technology, data processing affiliates of large companies, and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. as a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients' in-house capabilities. we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new well-funded competitors and new technologies, including large technology, media and other companies not historically in the financial services industry, start-ups and international providers of similar products and services to ours. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients, and our ability to grow may be limited. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services, and increasing client expectations. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these demands or achieve market acceptance. in addition, the success of certain of our products and services rely, in part, on financial institutions, billers and other third parties to promote the use of our products and services by their customers. if we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance, or if third parties insufficiently promote our products and services, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients, to attract new ones and to grow profitably. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one or more of our competitors to provide products and services. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. mergers, consolidations and failures of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. if our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. it is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security incidents or other technological risks involving our systems and data, or those of our clients or vendors, could expose us to liability or damage our reputation. our operations depend on receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our associates, our clients and their customers. any unauthorized access, intrusion, infiltration, network disruption, denial of service or similar incident could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or data, or the systems or data of our clients or vendors. these events could create costly litigation, significant financial liability, increased regulatory scrutiny, 8 table of contents financial sanctions and a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients and cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the events that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, we may not be able to prevent a material event in the future, and the impact of a material event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our products or services could harm our business and reputation. our business depends heavily on the reliability of our processing and other systems. an operational failure and the resulting service interruption could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. an operational failure could involve the hardware, software, data, networks or systems upon which we rely to deliver our services and could be caused by our actions, the actions of third parties or events over which we may have limited or no control. events that could cause operational failures include, but are not limited to, hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. a prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue, and significantly impact our clients' businesses and the customers they serve. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computer systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems or with other programs used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. a heightened regulatory environment in the financial services industry may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. since the enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ), a number of substantial regulations affecting the supervision and operation of the financial services industry within the united states have been adopted, including those that establish the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). the cfpb has issued guidance that applies to, and conducts direct examinations of, supervised banks and nonbanks as well as supervised service providers like us. in addition, federal and state governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have adopted or are pursuing numerous additional regulations impacting the financial services industry, including regulations related to cybersecurity and data privacy. to the extent this oversight or regulation negatively impacts the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. additional regulation, examination and oversight of us could require us to modify the manner in which we contract with or provide products and services to our clients; directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services; require us to invest additional time and resources to comply with such oversight and regulations; or limit our ability to update our existing products and services, or require us to develop new ones. any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 table of contents if we fail to comply with applicable regulations, our businesses could be harmed. if we fail to comply with regulations applicable to our business, including cybersecurity and data privacy regulations, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability. certain of our subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters in those jurisdictions where such licensure is required. in connection with such licensure, we are required to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and to file periodic reports. in addition, our direct-to-consumer payments businesses, including our walk-in bill payment, online bill payment, digital disbursements, and popmoney person-to-person payment services, are subject to federal regulation in the united states, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers, or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. if we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of nacha and the payment card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to rules of the national automated clearing house association ( nacha ) as well as card association and network rules governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover or other similar organizations, including the payment card industry data security standard enforced by the major card brands. the rules of nacha and the card networks are set by their respective boards, and the card network rules may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. if we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our certifications could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes to the association and network rules, that we do not successfully address, or any other action by the card networks to restrict our ability to process transactions over such networks, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical, or we may need to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. we may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time-consuming litigation and may require significant attention from our management and key personnel. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 table of contents acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth; or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we may face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. we have in the past and may in the future sell businesses. in connection with sales of businesses, we may make representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agree to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. if we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, compliance and sales personnel, our future success could be harmed. our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. our products and services require sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients' demands. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we are exposed to the global economic conditions in the financial services industry. a prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the market for our electronic transaction services continues to evolve and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow, or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by a combination of factors including speed, cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act could cause us to modify current estimates about the impact that it will have on us, which could negatively impact our anticipated earnings and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ). the tax act significantly revises the u.s. corporate income tax code by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a territorial-style tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our financial results for 2018 included additional income tax expense of 11 table of contents approximately $19 million resulting from new interpretive guidance issued by the internal revenue service. further analysis of this complex legislation or future regulations or guidance from the internal revenue service, the securities and exchange commission or the financial accounting standards board could cause us to adjust current estimates in future periods, which could impact our earnings and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 70% of our total assets at december 31, 2018 . these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. in addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $6.0 billion of debt. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms. risks relating to the proposed merger with first data the merger is subject to a number of conditions to our and first data's obligations to complete the merger, which, if not fulfilled, or not fulfilled in a timely manner, may result in termination of the merger agreement. our and first data's respective obligations to effect the merger are subject to the satisfaction at or prior to the effective time of the merger of the following conditions: first data's stockholders must approve the consummation of the merger; our shareholders must approve the issuance of shares to first data shareholders in connection with the merger; the shares of our common stock that will be issued in the merger must have been approved for listing on nasdaq; our form s-4 registration statement filed in connection with the merger must become effective under the securities act of 1933 and no stop order suspending its effectiveness may be in effect; no injunctions or decrees by any relevant governmental entity that prevent the merger may be outstanding; all requisite regulatory approvals, both antitrust or otherwise and both u.s. and non-u.s., must have been obtained; subject to certain exceptions and materiality standards provided in the merger agreement, the representations and warranties of the other party must be true and correct; the other party must have performed or complied with in all material respects all of its obligations under the merger agreement; each party must have received a tax opinion from its respective counsel to the effect that the merger will constitute a reorganization under the internal revenue code; and 12 table of contents our board of directors must have adopted amended by-laws and we must have taken all other steps necessary to effect the governance structure of the combined company as contemplated in the merger agreement. many of the conditions to completion of the merger are not within our or first data's control, and we cannot predict when, or if, these conditions will be satisfied. if any of these conditions are not satisfied or waived prior to october 16, 2019, which date may be extended once to january 16, 2020, and extended a second time to april 16, 2020, it is possible that the merger agreement may be terminated. although we and first data have agreed in the merger agreement to use reasonable best efforts, subject to certain limitations, to complete the merger as promptly as practicable, these and other conditions to the completion of the merger may fail to be satisfied. in addition, satisfying the conditions to and completion of the merger may take longer, and could cost more, than we expect. we cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent them from occurring. any delay in completing the merger may adversely affect the cost savings and other benefits that we expect to achieve if the merger and the integration of the companies' respective businesses are completed within the expected timeframe. there can be no assurance that all required regulatory approvals will be obtained, or obtained prior to the termination date. the merger is subject to the receipt of consents and clearances from domestic and foreign regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on us following the merger, or, if not obtained, could prevent the completion of the merger. before the merger can be completed, waiting periods must expire or terminate under applicable antitrust laws, including the hsr act, and various approvals, consents or clearances must be obtained from certain other u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory authorities. in deciding whether to grant antitrust or regulatory clearances, the relevant authorities will consider the effect of the merger on competition in the case of competition authorities and a variety of other factors, in the case of other authorities. although we and first data have agreed in the merger agreement to use reasonable best efforts to make certain governmental filings and, subject to certain limitations, obtain the required governmental authorizations, as the case may be, there can be no assurance that the relevant authorizations will be obtained. the governmental authorities from which these authorizations are required have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. the terms and conditions of approvals that are granted may require that the parties divest certain businesses, assets, or products prior to or after the closing of the merger or impose requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions on the conduct of us following the closing of the merger. at any time before or after completion of the merger, notwithstanding the termination of the waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino act, the u.s. department of justice or the federal trade commission, or any state or foreign governmental entity, could take such action under the antitrust laws as each deems necessary or desirable in the public interest, including seeking to enjoin the completion of the merger or seeking divestiture of substantial assets of ours or first data. private parties also may seek to take legal action under the antitrust laws under certain circumstances. under the terms of the merger agreement, subject to certain conditions, both parties are required to use reasonable best efforts to obtain all of the foregoing authorizations or approvals. notwithstanding the foregoing, reasonable best efforts does not require us in connection with obtaining hart-scott-rodino clearance or any other approval required pursuant to any other antitrust or competition law in the unites states to (i) defend any lawsuit or challenge any other action by any governmental entity adversely affecting the parties' ability to complete the merger, (ii) sell, divest or otherwise encumber any asset or business or (iii) agree to any limits or restrictions on certain actions. there can be no assurance that regulators will not impose terms, conditions, requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions that would delay the completion of the merger, impose additional material costs on or limit the revenues of us after the merger, or limit some of the cost savings and other benefits that we expect following completion of the merger. in addition, we cannot provide any assurance that any such terms, conditions, requirements, limitations, costs, or restrictions will not result in the abandonment of the merger. in addition, disruptions in government operations, such as the recent shutdown of the u.s. government, could cause delay in obtaining approvals or increase processing times. any delay in completing the merger or any modification to the merger currently contemplated may adversely affect the timing and amount of cost savings and other benefits that are expected to be achieved from the merger. there can be no assurance that all required regulatory approvals will be obtained, or obtained prior to the termination date. 13 table of contents failure to complete the merger could negatively impact our stock price and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. if the merger is not completed for any reason, including as a result of failure to obtain all requisite regulatory approvals, if our shareholders fail to approve the issuance of shares to first data shareholders in connection with the merger or if first data's shareholders fail to approve the consummation of the merger, our ongoing businesses may be materially adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the merger, we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on their respective stock prices; we and our respective subsidiaries may experience negative reactions from their respective customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners; we will still be required to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger, such as costs associated with terminating the financing as well as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; we may be required to pay a cash termination fee equal to $665 million as required by the merger agreement; the merger agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of the respective businesses pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, which may have delayed or prevented the respective companies from undertaking business opportunities that, absent the merger agreement, may have been pursued; matters relating to the merger (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources by each company's management, which could have resulted in the distraction of each company's management from ongoing business operations and pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to the companies; and litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the merger agreement. if the merger is not completed, the risks described above may materialize and they may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial position and stock prices. our and first data's business relationships may be subject to disruption due to uncertainty associated with the merger, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position following the merger. parties with which we or first data do business may experience uncertainty associated with the merger, including with respect to our or first data's current or future business relationships following the merger. our and first data's business relationships may be subject to disruption as customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners may attempt to delay or defer entering into new business relationships, negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us or first data following the merger. these disruptions could have a material and adverse effect on our or first data's results of operations, cash flows and financial position, regardless of whether the merger is completed, as well as a material and adverse effect on our ability to realize the expected cost savings and other benefits of the merger. the risk, and adverse effect, of any disruption could be exacerbated by a delay in completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. uncertainties associated with the merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees, which could adversely affect our future business and operations following the merger. we depend on the experience and industry knowledge of officers and other key employees to execute our business plans. our success after the merger will depend in part upon our ability to retain key management personnel and other key employees. our and first data's current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles following the merger or other concerns regarding the timing and completion of the merger or our operations following the merger, any of which may have an adverse effect on our or first data's ability to attract or retain key management and other key personnel. if we or first data are unable to retain personnel, including our and first data's key management, who are critical to the future operations of the companies, we could face disruptions in our operations, loss of existing customers, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs. in addition, the loss of key personnel could diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger. no assurance can be given that we, following the merger, will be able to retain or attract key management personnel and other key employees to the same extent that we and first data have previously been able to retain or attract their own employees. 14 table of contents the merger agreement subjects us and first data to restrictions on our respective business activities prior to the effective time of the merger. the merger agreement subjects us and first data to restrictions on our respective business activities prior to the effective time of the merger. the merger agreement obligates us and first data to generally operate its businesses in the ordinary course until the effective time of the merger and to use its reasonable best efforts to maintain and preserve intact its business organization and advantageous business relationships on its actions. these restrictions could prevent us and first data from pursuing certain business opportunities that arise prior to the effective time of the merger and are outside the ordinary course of business. we may not be able to obtain our preferred form of debt financing in connection with the merger and on anticipated terms. we expect to fund the refinancing of certain outstanding indebtedness of first data and its subsidiaries on the closing date, making of cash payments in lieu of fractional shares as part of the merger consideration, and paying of fees and expenses related to the merger, the refinancing and the related transactions using a combination of cash on hand, the issuance of $12 billion in debt securities, the incurrence of $5 billion in borrowings under a new senior unsecured term loan facility, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. we have executed a $5 billion senior unsecured term loan facility and amendments to our existing revolving credit facility to increase the size of that facility and make other changes, although drawing under each facility is subject to certain conditions. with respect to the plan to issue $12 billion in debt securities, there is a risk that the markets will not allow us to execute this financing plan, or that such financing will not be available on favorable terms. as a result, we may need to pursue other options to refinance the outstanding debt of first data and its subsidiaries and fund these other amounts, including borrowing amounts under the bridge facility, which may result in less favorable financing terms that could increase costs and/or adversely impact the operations of the combined company. risks relating to fiserv following the proposed merger with first data we may be unable to integrate the business of first data successfully or realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. the merger involves the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent public companies. the combination of two independent businesses is complex, costly and time consuming, and we and first data will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our and first data's business practices and operations. potential difficulties that we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the business of first data in a manner that permits us to achieve, on a timely basis, or at all, the enhanced revenue opportunities and cost savings and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger; complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger. in addition, we and first data have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. it is possible that the integration process could result in: diversion of the attention of each company's management; and the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. any of these issues could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results following the merger. 15 table of contents our indebtedness following completion of the merger will be substantially greater than our indebtedness prior to completion of the merger. this increased level of indebtedness could adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility and increasing our interest expense. as of december 31, 2018, we had total indebtedness of approximately $6 billion and first data had total indebtedness of approximately $18 billion. upon completion of the merger, we expect to incur acquisition-related debt financing of approximately $17 billion, all of which is expected to be used to refinance certain outstanding indebtedness of first data and its subsidiaries on the closing date, pay cash in lieu of fractional shares as part of the merger consideration, and pay fees and expenses related to the merger, the refinancing and the related transactions. in addition, we have obtained an increase of $1.5 billion in the commitments available to us under our existing revolving credit facility, which increase is subject to the closing of the merger and certain other conditions. accordingly, our indebtedness following completion of the merger will be substantially greater than our indebtedness prior to completion of the merger. our substantially increased indebtedness following completion of the merger could have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. in addition, the amount of cash required to pay interest on our increased indebtedness levels will increase following completion of the transaction, and thus the demands on our cash resources will be greater than the amount of cash flows required to service our indebtedness prior to the merger. we will also incur various costs and expenses associated with the financing of the merger. the increased levels of indebtedness following completion of the merger could also reduce funds available to fund our efforts to integrate the business of first data and realize the expected benefits of the merger and to engage in investments in product development, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. if we do not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the merger, or if the financial performance of the combined company does not meet current expectations, then our ability to service our indebtedness, or to reduce leverage levels based on debt repayment or cash flow generation, may be adversely impacted. the indebtedness we incur under our new $5 billion term loan facility in connection with the merger and any indebtedness we incur under our revolving credit facility will bear interest at variable interest rates. if interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flows. in addition, our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. our ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its debt obligations. in connection with the debt financing, it is anticipated that we will seek ratings of its indebtedness from moody's investors service, inc. and s&amp;p global ratings. there can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future or that our ratings will not be adversely affected by the factors described above. moreover, we may be required to raise substantial additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements. our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. the estimated potential synergies attributable to the merger may vary from expectations. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the merger, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. the success of the merger will depend, in significant part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business, grow the revenue of the combined company and realize the anticipated strategic benefits and synergies from the combination. we believe that the addition of first data will complement our strategy by providing scale and revenue diversity, accelerate our growth strategy and enable us to have a strong global footprint. however, achieving these goals requires growth of the revenue of the combined company and realization of the targeted cost synergies expected from the merger. this growth and the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. actual operating, technological, strategic and revenue opportunities, if achieved at all, may be less significant than expected or may take longer to achieve than anticipated. if we are not able to achieve these objectives and realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the merger within the anticipated timing or at all, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. 16 table of contents we expect to incur substantial expenses related to the merger and integration. we expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the merger and the related integration. there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that may need to be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing and benefits. while we have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. these integration expenses may result in us taking significant charges against earnings following the completion of the merger, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. our future results following the merger will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations. following the merger, the size of our business will increase significantly beyond the current size of either our or first data's business. our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. we may also face increased scrutiny from governmental authorities as a result of the significant increase in the size of its business. there can be no assurances that we will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits currently anticipated from the merger. following the merger, our business may be adversely affected by geopolitical, regulatory and other risks associated with operations outside of the united states and we may incur higher than anticipated costs and may become more susceptible to these risks. after completion of the merger, we will have significantly expanded our international presence by offering merchant acquiring, processing and issuing services outside of the united states, including in argentina, brazil, germany, india, ireland, the netherlands, poland and the united kingdom, where first data's principal non-u.s. operations are currently located. our revenues derived from these and other non-u.s. operations will be subject to additional risks, including those resulting from social and geopolitical instability and unfavorable political or diplomatic developments, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. for example, the united kingdom's decision to leave the european union may add cost and complexity in various aspects of our business as united kingdom and european union laws and regulations diverge. we will also be subject to potential non-u.s. governmental intervention and new laws and new regulations that we were not previously subject to, which could increase costs and may have potential negative effects on our business. the merger may result in a loss of customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners or other business partners and may result in the termination of existing contracts. following the merger, some of our or first data's customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners may terminate or scale back their current or prospective business relationships with us. some customers may not wish to source a larger percentage of their needs from a single company or may feel that we are too closely allied with one of their competitors. in addition, we and first data have contracts with customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners that may require us or first data to obtain consents from these other parties in connection with the merger, which may not be obtained on favorable terms or at all. if relationships with customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners are adversely affected by the merger, or if we, following the merger, lose the benefits of our or first data's contracts, our business and financial performance could suffer. following the merger, first data's global business solutions business, as integrated into fiserv, will depend, in part, on merchant relationships and alliances. if we are unable to maintain these relationships and alliances, our business may be adversely affected. after completion of the merger, our alliance structures are expected to continue, as they did at first data, to take different forms, including consolidated subsidiaries, equity method investments, and revenue sharing arrangements. under first data's current alliance program (and as is expected to continue with the combined company), a bank or other institution forms an alliance with first data on an exclusive basis, either contractually or through a separate legal entity. merchant contracts may be contributed to the alliance by first data and/or the bank or institution. the banks and other institutions generally provide card association sponsorship, clearing, and settlement services and typically act as a merchant referral source when the institution has an existing banking or other relationship with such merchant. first data provides transaction processing and related functions. both first data and its alliance partners may also provide management, sales, marketing, and other administrative services. the alliance structure allows first data to be the processor for multiple financial institutions, any one of which may 17 table of contents be selected by the merchant as its bank partner. first data's global business solutions business, and the combined company, is expected to continue to be, dependent, in part, on merchant relationships, alliances, and other distribution channels. first data is working, and we expect the combined company to continue to work, with alliance partners to grow their businesses. there can be no guarantee that first data's, or the combined company's, efforts will be successful and that first data, or the combined company, will achieve growth in merchant relationships, alliances, and other distribution channels. in addition, first data's contractual arrangements with merchants and merchant alliance partners are, and the combined company's are expected to continue to be, for fixed terms and may also allow for early termination upon the occurrence of certain events. there can be no assurance that first data, or the combined company, will be able to renew contractual arrangements with these merchants or merchant alliance partners on similar terms or at all. following the merger, the loss of merchant relationships or alliance and financial institution partners could negatively impact our business and result in a reduction of its revenue and profit. new omaha holdings l.p. may sell a substantial amount of our common stock shortly after the completion of the merger as certain restrictions on sales expire, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. pursuant to a shareholder agreement, new omaha holdings l.p. ( new omaha ), which is expected to own approximately 16% of our outstanding shares upon the closing of the merger transaction, is prohibited from selling shares of our common stock for the first three months following the completion of the merger. after the three-month anniversary of the completion of the merger, new omaha may sell such shares, subject to certain limitations contained in the shareholder agreement. additionally, under the registration rights agreement, we have granted new omaha registration rights, which permit, among others, underwritten offerings. the registration rights agreement will terminate when the aggregate ownership percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock held by new omaha and its affiliate transferees falls below 2% and such shares may be freely sold without restrictions. new omaha may have influence over us following completion of the merger and its interests may conflict with other shareholders. upon completion of the merger, new omaha is expected to own approximately 16% of our issued and outstanding shares and is expected to be our largest shareholder. concurrently with the execution of the merger agreement, we entered into a shareholder agreement and the registration rights agreement with new omaha, which give new omaha certain rights. under the shareholder agreement, new omaha may designate a director to serve on our board of directors in accordance with the terms thereof until the aggregate ownership percentage of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock held by new omaha and its affiliate transferees first falls below 5%. the shareholder agreement will terminate when the aggregate ownership percentage of our outstanding shares held by new omaha and certain of its affiliates falls below 3%. although there are various restrictions on new omaha's ability to take certain actions with respect to us and our shareholders (including certain standstill provisions for so long as new omaha's aggregate ownership percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock remains at or above 5%), new omaha may seek to influence, and may be able to influence, us through its appointment of a director to our board of directors and its share ownership. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. our senior management actively monitors these risks. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt. based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates at december 31, 2018 , a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2019 by approximately $11 million . in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested into short-term, highly liquid investments from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. subscriber funds are not included in our consolidated balance sheets and can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity. during 2018 , the subscriber funds daily average balance approximated $1.3 billion . a 1% increase or decrease in applicable interest rates would not have a material impact on our annual income from continuing operations. we conduct business in the united states and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. we have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with total notional values of approximately 35 table of contents $202 million as of december 31, 2018 to hedge foreign currency exposure to the indian rupee. in 2018 , approximately 6% of our total revenue was from clients in foreign countries. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2018 , there would not have been a material impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position.risk factors 11 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks relating to our business we operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. the markets for our products and services are highly competitive from new and existing competitors. our principal competitors include other vendors of financial services technology and payment systems, data processing affiliates of large companies, processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives, financial institutions, independent sales organizations ( isos ), independent software vendors, and payments companies. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. as a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients' in-house capabilities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new technologies and well-funded competitors, including large technology, telecommunication, media and other companies not historically in the financial services and payments industries, start-ups and international providers of products and services similar to ours. in addition, participants in the financial services, payments and technology industries may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to keep pace with technological change we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients, and our ability to grow may be limited. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, frequent introduction of new products and services, and increasing client expectations. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these demands or achieve market acceptance. we must anticipate and respond to these changes in order to remain competitive within our relevant markets. for example, our ability to provide innovative point-of-sale technology to our merchant clients could have an impact on our merchant acquiring business, and new services and technologies that we develop may be impacted by industry-wide solutions and standards related to tokenization or other safety and security technologies. if we are unable to anticipate or respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely basis, our ability to remain competitive could be materially adversely affected. in addition, the success of certain of our products and services rely, in part, on financial institutions, billers and other third parties to promote the use of our products and services by their customers. if we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance and compete effectively, or if third parties insufficiently promote our products and services, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients, to attract new ones and to grow profitably. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one or more of our competitors to provide products and services or to perform the services in-house. some of our competitors may offer more attractive fees or other services that we do not offer, and some clients may desire to perform the services themselves. larger clients may be able to seek lower prices from us when they renew or extend a contract or the client's business has significant volume changes. in addition, larger clients may reduce the services we provide if they decide to move services in-house. further, our small merchant business clients may exert pricing pressure due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures such clients experience from their customers. on some occasions, these factors result in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 11 table of contents our business depends, in part, on our merchant and financial institution relationships and alliances, and if we are unable to maintain these relationships and alliances, our business may be adversely affected. under our alliance program, a bank or other institution forms an alliance with us, generally on an exclusive basis, either contractually or through a separate legal entity. merchant contracts may be contributed to the alliance by us and/or the bank or institution. the banks and other institutions generally provide card association sponsorship, clearing and settlement services and typically act as a merchant referral source when the institution has an existing banking or other relationship with such merchant. we provide transaction processing and related functions to the alliance. both we and our alliance partners may also provide management, sales, marketing and other administrative services. the alliance structure allows us to be the processor for multiple financial institutions, any one of which may be selected by the merchant as its bank partner. our merchant acquiring business depends, in part, on our merchant relationships, alliances and other distribution channels. there can be no guarantee that we will achieve growth in our merchant relationships, alliances or other distribution channels. in addition, our contractual arrangements with merchants and merchant alliance partners are for fixed terms and may allow for early termination upon the occurrence of certain events. there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our contractual arrangements with these merchants or merchant alliance partners on similar terms or at all. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. if such financial institutions stop providing clearing services or limit our volumes we would need to find other financial institutions to provide those services. the loss of merchant relationships or alliance and financial institution partners could negatively impact our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. mergers, consolidations and failures of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. if our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. our alliance strategy could also be negatively affected by consolidations, especially where the financial institutions involved are committed to their internal merchant processing businesses that compete with us. it is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security incidents or other technological risks involving our systems and data, or those of our clients, partners or vendors, could expose us to liability or damage our reputation. our operations depend on receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our employees, our clients and their customers. under the card network rules, various federal, state and international laws, and client contracts, we are responsible for information provided to us by financial institutions, merchants, independent sales organizations, third-party service providers and others. the confidentiality of such sensitive business information and personal consumer information residing on our systems is critical to our business. any unauthorized access, intrusion, infiltration, network disruption, denial of service or similar incident could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or data, or the systems or data of our clients, partners or vendors. these incidents are often difficult to detect and are constantly evolving. we expect that unauthorized parties will continue to attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, and those of our clients, partners and vendors, through various means and with increasing sophistication. these events could create costly litigation, significant financial liability, increased regulatory scrutiny, financial sanctions and a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients and cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, we expect to continue to invest significant resources to maintain and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and that none of the events that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, we cannot be certain that the security measures and procedures we have in place to detect security incidents and protect sensitive data, including protection against unauthorized access and use by our employees, will be successful or sufficient to counter all current and emerging technological risks and threats. the impact of a material event involving our systems and data, or those of our clients, partners or vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational failures and resulting interruptions in the implementation or availability of our products or services could harm our business and reputation. our business depends heavily on the reliability of our processing and other systems. an operational failure and the resulting implementation delays or service interruption could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. an operational failure could 12 table of contents involve the hardware, software, data, networks or systems upon which we rely to deliver our services and could be caused by our actions, the actions of third parties or events over which we may have limited or no control. events that could cause operational failures include, but are not limited to, hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. implementation delays, interruptions of service or hardware device defects could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits, product recalls or other liabilities. a prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue, and significantly impact our clients' businesses and the customers they serve. in addition, a significant implementation delay, interruption of service or product recall could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. disruptions of operations of other participants in the global financial system could prevent us from delivering our products and services. the operations and systems of many participants in the global financial system are interconnected. many of the transactions involving our products and services rely on multiple participants in the global financial system to move funds and communicate information to the next participant in the transaction chain. a disruption for any reason of the operations of a participant in the global financial system could impact our ability to obtain or provide information or cause funds to be moved in a manner to successfully deliver our products and services. although we work with other participants to avoid any disruptions, there is no assurance that such efforts will be effective. such a disruption could lead to our inability to deliver products and services, reputational damage, lost clients and revenue, loss of clients' and their customers' confidence, as well as additional costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. because we rely on third parties to provide products and services, we could be adversely impacted if they fail to fulfill their obligations. our business depends on third parties to provide us with certain products and services. the failure of these vendors to properly perform their obligations in a timely manner could expose us and our clients to information security, financial, compliance and reputational risks, among others, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. in addition, if we are unable to renew our existing contracts with key vendors, we might not be able to replace the related product or service at all or at the same cost, which would negatively impact our results of operations. our merchants may be unable to satisfy obligations for which we may also be liable. we are subject to the risk of our merchants being unable to satisfy obligations for which we may also be liable. for example, we and our merchant acquiring alliances may be subject to contingent liability for transactions originally acquired by us that are disputed by the cardholder and charged back to the merchants. if we or the alliance is unable to collect this amount from the merchant because of the merchant's insolvency or other reasons, we or the alliance will bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. although we have an active program to manage our credit risk and often mitigate our risk by obtaining collateral, a default on such obligations by one or more of our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. fraud by merchants or others could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be subject to potential liability for fraudulent transactions, including electronic payment and card transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit credit, debit or prepaid card, card number or other credentials to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid card or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. we also rely on isos to sell our merchant processing services, which they may do by contracting with their own sub-isos. we rely on these isos and sub-isos to exercise appropriate controls to avoid fraudulent transactions. it is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud, or otherwise effectively administer our chargeback responsibilities, would increase our chargeback liability, exposure to fines or other liabilities. increases in chargebacks, fines or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 table of contents our business may be adversely affected by geopolitical and other risks associated with operations outside of the united states and, as we continue to expand internationally, we may incur higher than anticipated costs and may become more susceptible to these risks. we offer merchant acquiring, processing and issuing services outside of the u.s., including in the u.k., germany, argentina, india and brazil. our facilities outside of the u.s., and those of our suppliers and vendors, including manufacturing, customer support, software development and technology hosting facilities, are subject to risks, including natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, terrorism, war, political instability and other events outside of our or our suppliers' control. as we expand internationally and grow our client base outside of the u.s., we may face challenges due to the presence of more established competitors and our lack of experience in such non-u.s. markets, and we may incur higher than anticipated costs. if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with the international operation and expansion of our business, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. a disruptive implementation of the united kingdom's exit from the european union could adversely affect our results of operations. we are monitoring developments related to the implementation of the decision of the u.k. to exit the european union (the e.u. ), referred to as brexit , which could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services, data and people between the u.k. and the e.u., undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas, and significantly disrupt trade between the u.k. and the e.u. the effects of brexit will depend in part on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to e.u. markets. these agreements could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate and adversely change tax benefits or liabilities in these or other jurisdictions. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. will have and how such withdrawal will affect us. in addition, brexit may create additional uncertainty in currency exchange rate fluctuations that may result in the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. we translate revenue denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our financial statements. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international revenue and profit is reduced because foreign currencies translate into fewer u.s. dollars. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could materially adversely affect our relationships with our existing and future clients and vendors, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and business opportunities. changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. from time to time, card associations and debit networks, including the card networks which we own and operate, increase the processing and other fees (including what is commonly known as interchange fees ) that they charge. it is possible that competitive pressures will result in us absorbing a portion of such increases in the future, or result in us not being able to increase our own fees, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin, limit our growth, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. our failure to comply with applicable complex laws and regulations could harm our businesses and subject us to liability. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business, including payments industry, cybersecurity and data privacy regulations, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and our ability to obtain new clients could be inhibited, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our clients are also subject to numerous laws and regulations applicable to banks, financial institutions and card issuers in the u.s. and abroad, and, consequently, we are at times affected by these federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. furthermore, these laws and regulations are constantly changing with new laws and regulations and interpretations thereof being implemented. we operate our business around the world, including in certain foreign countries with developing economies where companies often engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws applicable to us, including the united states foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. these laws prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we have implemented policies and training programs to discourage such practices; however, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants and agents will comply with our policies and all applicable laws. 14 table of contents we are also subject to certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control ( ofac ), which prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their governments, individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations. similar anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing and proceeds of crime laws apply to movements of currency and payments through electronic transactions and to dealings with persons specified in lists equivalent to ofac lists in several other countries and require specific data retention obligations to be observed by intermediaries in the payment process. our businesses in those jurisdictions are subject to those data retention obligations. certain of our subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters in jurisdictions where such licensure is required. in connection with such licensure, we are required to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and to file periodic reports. in addition, our direct-to-consumer payments businesses, including our walk-in bill payment, online bill payment, digital disbursements and popmoney person-to-person payment services, are subject to federal regulation in the u.s., including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. our subsidiary, money network financial, llc, provides prepaid access for various open loop prepaid programs for which it is the program manager and therefore must meet the requirements of the financial crimes enforcement network. certain of our businesses are also subject to anti-money laundering regulations outside the u.s. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers, or the prohibition against us providing merchant acquiring, money transmitter services or prepaid programs in particular jurisdictions. failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations or changes in this regulatory environment, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new, varying or more restrictive laws and regulations by federal, state, local or foreign governments, may result in significant financial penalties, reputational harm, or change the manner in which we currently conduct some aspects of our business, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the payment card networks and nacha, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations, which could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with visa and mastercard and other networks as members or service providers for member institutions. as such, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us or our clients to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks for certain acts or omissions by us, acquiring clients, processing clients and merchants. in addition, we are subject to rules of the national automated clearing house association ( nacha ) as well as the payment card industry data security standard enforced by the major card brands. the rules of nacha and the card networks are set by their respective boards, some of which are our competitors, and the card network rules may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. if we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined and our member registrations or certifications could be suspended or terminated. the suspension or termination of our member registrations or certifications, or any changes to the association and network rules, that we do not successfully address, or any other action by the card networks to restrict our ability to process transactions over such networks, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. a heightened regulatory environment in the financial services industry may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. since the enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ), a number of substantial regulations affecting the supervision and operation of the financial services industry within the united states have been adopted, including those that establish the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). the cfpb has issued guidance that applies to, and conducts direct examinations of, supervised banks and nonbanks as well as supervised service providers like us. in addition, the cfpb regulates consumer financial products and services (including many offered by our clients), restricts debit card fees paid by merchants to certain issuer banks and allows merchants to offer discounts for different payment methods. cfpb rules, examinations and enforcement actions may require us to adjust our activities and may increase our compliance costs. changes to the dodd-frank act or regulations could adversely impact our debit network business. in addition, certain of our alliance partners are subject to regulation by federal and state authorities and, as a result, could pass through some of those compliance obligations to us. 15 table of contents to the extent this oversight or regulation negatively impacts the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. additional regulation, examination and oversight of us could require us to modify the manner in which we contract with or provide products and services to our clients; directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services; require us to invest additional time and resources to comply with such oversight and regulations; or limit our ability to update our existing products and services, or require us to develop new ones. any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. legislative or regulatory initiatives on cybersecurity and data privacy could adversely impact our business and financial results. cybersecurity and data privacy risks have received heightened legislative and regulatory attention. for example, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in 2018, extends the scope of the e.u. data protection law to all companies processing data of e.u. residents, regardless of the company's location, subject to certain limitations. the law requires companies to meet stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data. our efforts to comply with gdpr and other privacy and data protection laws (such as the new california consumer privacy act effective as of january 2020 and the brazilian general data protection law effective as of february 2020) could involve substantial expenses, divert resources from other initiatives and projects and limit the services we are able to offer. further, failure to comply with applicable laws in this area could also result in fines, penalties and reputational damage. u.s. banking agencies have proposed enhanced cyber risk management standards that would apply to us and our financial institution clients and that would address cyber risk governance and management, management of internal and external dependencies, and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. several states also have adopted or proposed cybersecurity laws targeting these issues. legislation and regulations on cybersecurity and data privacy may compel us to enhance or modify our systems, invest in new systems or alter our business practices or our policies on data governance and privacy. if any of these outcomes were to occur, our operational costs could increase significantly. failure to comply with state and federal antitrust requirements could adversely affect our business. through our merchant alliances, we hold an ownership interest in several competing merchant acquiring businesses while serving as an electronic processor for those businesses. in order to satisfy state and federal antitrust requirements, we actively maintain an antitrust compliance program. notwithstanding our compliance program, it is possible that perceived or actual violations of state or federal antitrust requirements could give rise to regulatory enforcement investigations or actions. regulatory scrutiny of, or regulatory enforcement action in connection with, compliance with state and federal antitrust requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third-party infringement claims. if the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical, or we may need to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. we may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third-party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time-consuming litigation and may require significant attention from our management and key personnel. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. it is also possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology. further, we use open source software in connection with our solutions. companies that incorporate open source software into their solutions have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of solutions developed using open source software. as a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright 16 table of contents and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. the laws of certain non-u.s. countries where we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computer systems and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems or with other programs used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients or client data, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. acquisitions subject us to risks, including assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth; or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult or expensive to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. in addition, acquisitions outside of the united states often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with non-u.s. regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some non-u.s. countries; difficulty entering new non-u.s. markets due to, among other things, consumer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and general economic and political conditions. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we may face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. we have in the past and may in the future sell businesses. in connection with sales of businesses, we may make representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agree to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 table of contents the failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. if we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, compliance and sales personnel, our future success could be harmed. our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. our products and services require sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients' demands. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry and our merchant acquiring business. given this focus, we are exposed to global economic conditions and adverse economic trends may accelerate the timing, or increase the impact of, risks to our financial performance. such trends may include, but are not limited to, the following: declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations, social unrest, natural disasters, public health crises, including the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors, such as cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues are dependent; low levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high inflation and/or unemployment, may cause decreased spending by cardholders; budgetary concerns in the united states and other countries around the world could affect the united states and other specific sovereign credit ratings, impact consumer confidence and spending, and increase the risks of operating in those countries; emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in the united states and europe, and adverse economic trends, including high rates of inflation, may be more pronounced in such emerging markets; financial institutions may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate cardholder defaults; uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our clients' businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives, and realization of prepaid assets less predictable; our clients may decrease spending for value-added services; and government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations, and/or government investments in our clients, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with our clients or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. a weakening in the economy or competition from other retailers could also force some retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and declines in transactions, and reduced earnings on transactions due to a potential shift to large discount merchants. additionally, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits and become more selective in their card issuance practices. a prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows from operations. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations as well as our cash flows from operations. we have established contingency reserves for known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. these reserves reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority. while we believe that the reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there is no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial cost not in excess of any related reserve. an unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. 18 table of contents changes in tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows from operations. our operations are subject to tax by federal, state, local, and international taxing jurisdictions. changes in tax laws or their interpretations in our significant tax jurisdictions could materially increase the amount of taxes we owe, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations as well as our cash flows from operations. for example, the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ) significantly revised the u.s. corporate income tax code by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a territorial-type tax system and imposing repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. further analysis of the tax act or future regulations or guidance from the internal revenue service, the securities and exchange commission or the financial accounting standards board could cause us to adjust current estimates in future periods, which could impact our earnings and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. furthermore, our implementation of new practices and processes designed to comply with changing tax laws and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 69% of our total assets at december 31, 2019. these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. in addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. existing or future leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. at december 31, 2019, we had approximately $21.9 billion of debt. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, if certain of our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms. an increase in interest rates may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loans, are at variable rates of interest. an increase in interest rates would have a negative impact on our results of operations by causing an increase in interest expense. at december 31, 2019, we had approximately $4.8 billion in variable rate debt, which includes $4.0 billion on our term loans, $324 million drawn on our revolving credit facility and lines of credit and $500 million drawn on our accounts receivable securitization facility. based on outstanding debt balances and interest rates at december 31, 2019, a 1% increase in variable interest rates would result in a decrease to annual pre-tax income of $48 million . our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are subject to risks related to changes in currency rates as a result of our investments in foreign operations and from revenues generated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. revenues and profit generated by such international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. from time to time, we utilize foreign currency forward contracts and other hedging instruments to mitigate the market value risks associated with foreign currency-denominated transactions and investments. these hedging strategies may not, however, eliminate all of the risks related to foreign currency translation, and we may forgo the benefits we would otherwise experience if currency exchange rates were to change in our favor. we have also issued foreign currency-denominated senior notes for which payments of interest and principal are to be made in foreign currency, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could 19 table of contents cause the expense associated with such payments to increase. in addition, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues and earnings we derive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. potential tariffs or trade wars could increase the cost of our products, which could adversely impact the competitiveness of our products and our financial results. the u.s. has imposed tariffs on certain imports from china, including on some of our hardware devices manufactured in china. if the u.s. administration imposes additional tariffs, or if additional tariffs or trade restrictions are implemented by the u.s. or other countries, our hardware devices produced in china could be impacted. although it is too early to predict how current or future tariffs on items imported from china or elsewhere will impact our business, the cost of our products manufactured in china and imported into the u.s. or other countries could increase, which in turn could adversely affect the demand for these products and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. risks relating to the first data acquisition we may be unable to integrate the business of first data successfully or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. the combination of two independent businesses is complex, costly and time consuming, and we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations. potential difficulties that we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the business of first data in a manner that permits us to achieve, on a timely basis, or at all, the enhanced revenue opportunities and cost savings and other benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition; complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition. any of these issues could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. the synergies attributable to the acquisition may vary from expectations. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the acquisition, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the success of the acquisition will depend, in significant part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business, grow the revenue of the combined company and realize the anticipated strategic benefits and synergies from the combination. we believe that the addition of first data will complement our strategy by providing scale and revenue diversity, accelerate our growth strategy and enable us to have a strong global footprint. however, achieving these goals requires growth of the revenue of the combined company and realization of the targeted cost synergies expected from the acquisition. this growth and the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. actual operating, technological, strategic, synergy and revenue opportunities may be less significant than expected or may take longer to achieve than anticipated. if we are not able to achieve these objectives and realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the acquisition within the anticipated timing, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. we expect to incur substantial expenses related to the integration. we expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of first data. there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that may need to be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing and benefits. while we have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. these integration expenses may result in us taking significant charges against earnings following the completion of the transaction, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. 20 table of contents our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations. as a result of the acquisition, the size of our business has increased significantly. our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. we may also face increased scrutiny from governmental authorities as a result of the significant increase in the size of our business. there can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits currently anticipated from the acquisition. the first data transaction may result in a loss of customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners or other business partners and may result in the termination of existing contracts. some of our customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners may terminate or scale back their current or prospective business relationships with us as a result of the acquisition. some customers may not wish to source a larger percentage of their needs from a single company or may feel that we are too closely aligned with one of their competitors. if relationships with customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners are adversely affected by the transaction, or if we lose the benefits of our contracts, our business and financial performance could suffer. new omaha holdings l.p. may sell a substantial amount of our common stock as certain restrictions on sales expire, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. new omaha holdings l.p. ( new omaha ) owns approximately 16% of our outstanding shares. new omaha may sell its shares subject to certain limitations contained in the shareholder agreement between us and new omaha. under a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the acquisition, we have granted new omaha registration rights, which permit, among others, underwritten offerings. the registration rights agreement will terminate when the aggregate ownership percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock held by new omaha and its affiliate transferees falls below 2% and such shares may be freely sold without restrictions. new omaha may have influence over us and its interests may conflict with other shareholders. new omaha owns approximately 16% of our issued and outstanding shares and is our largest shareholder. under the shareholder agreement between us and new omaha, new omaha may designate a director to serve on our board of directors in accordance with the terms thereof until the aggregate ownership percentage of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock held by new omaha and its affiliate transferees first falls below 5%. the shareholder agreement will terminate when the aggregate ownership percentage of our outstanding shares held by new omaha and certain of its affiliates falls below 3%. although there are various restrictions on new omaha's ability to take certain actions with respect to us and our shareholders (including certain standstill provisions for so long as new omaha's aggregate ownership percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock remains at or above 5%), new omaha may seek to influence, and may be able to influence, us through its appointment of a director to our board of directors and its share ownership. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. our senior management actively monitors these risks. interest rate risk we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt. based on our outstanding debt balances and interest rates at december 31, 2019 , a 1% increase in variable interest rates would increase annual interest expense by approximately $48 million . in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested into short-term, highly liquid investments from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. a 1% decrease in variable interest rates would decrease annual interest-related income related to settlement assets by approximately $32 million . foreign currency risk we conduct business globally and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar-denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. we manage the exposure to these risks through the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and non-derivative net investment hedges. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arise from our non-u.s. operations to the extent they are conducted in local currency. in 2019 , approximately 12% of our total revenue was generated outside the u.s. the major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the euro, the british pound, the indian rupee and the argentine peso. a movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies in which our revenue and profits are denominated at 44 table of contents december 31, 2019, would have resulted in an increase or decrease in our reported pre-tax income, including the results of first data from the date of acquisition, of approximately $25 million as follows: ( in millions ) 2019 euro $ 7 british pound 4 indian rupee 3 argentine peso 2 other 9 total increase or decrease $ 25 we have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge foreign currency exposure to our operating costs in india. at december 31, 2019, the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $178 million . in addition, we designated our foreign currency-denominated senior notes as net investment hedges to reduce exposure to changes in the value of our net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 45 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 10quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - market risk factors" in the annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk in the annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk in the annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk in the annual report.risk factors 12 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results from operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. our acquisition strategy subjects us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenues and net income since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate similar or complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to 12 table of contents identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth. businesses we acquire may perform worse than expected or be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. we may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirors; we may need to borrow more money from lenders or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house, we often compete against our potential clients in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies including international providers of similar products and services to ours having a lower cost basis. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with our clients for core services generally run for a period of 3-5 years in our financial segment and provide for termination fees upon early termination. renewal time presents our customers with the opportunity to consider other competitors or to renegotiate their contracts with us. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates upon favorable terms, our revenues from such renewals and the associated earnings could be negatively impacted. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our future success 13 table of contents will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current products and services and develop and introduce new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers. we may not be successful in developing, marketing and selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these services, or our new services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. we are continually engaged in significant efforts to upgrade our applications. if we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of our upgrade efforts, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. consolidation in the financial services industry could adversely affect our revenues by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and could make us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. there has been and continues to be merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in the financial services industry. mergers or consolidations of financial institutions in the future could reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. if our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. in addition, it is possible that the larger financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may experience an operational failure in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities which would harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could cause us to lose clients. damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of services could damage our relationship with certain clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. we have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or reduce disruption. a prolonged interruption of our services or network that extends for more than several hours could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenues by reason of such interruption. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could lead our present and potential clients to choose service providers other than us. our ability to compete in the health plan administration business requires us to arrange for network provider services with third parties over whom we have no control. in order to provide administrative services to our clients who sponsor self-insured health plans, we must, in most cases, arrange for these clients to have access to a third party provider network. in any particular market, provider networks could refuse to contract with us or only do so on terms that would not allow us to compete with our competitors. if these provider networks refuse to contract with us or only do so on terms that place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to compete or be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. in addition, the large, national health insurance carriers with whom we compete for administration services have their own proprietary networks which, in some instances allow them to offer our target clients access to a health care network which offers better discounts rates than we have access to, which may result in us being required to offer lower prices for administrative services in order to compete for such clients. 14 table of contents we may experience software defects, development delays and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful in limiting our liability. we have a long sales cycle for certain of our applications and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. the implementation of our applications often involves significant capital commitments by our clients, particularly those with smaller operational scale. potential clients generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. we may expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. our sales cycle may be extended due to our clients budgetary constraints or for other reasons. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or if we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. as part of our transaction processing businesses, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. unauthorized access to our computer systems could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. computer viruses have also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us and could inhibit our ability to attract new clients. if we fail to comply with regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, as a trust company or as an administrator of health services or if the national flood program is amended or substantially changed, our businesses could be harmed. our financial services data processing subsidiaries are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. our health plan management services subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory oversight at both the federal and state levels covering licensing and other day-to-day operating policies and 15 table of contents procedures. in addition, most of the health plan management services businesses are subject to hipaa regulations that govern the privacy and security of health information to protect against the unauthorized use or disclosure of health information. our trust subsidiaries are subject to the regulations of the colorado division of banking. if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on us. our flood processing services business is dependant on administration of the national flood program by the u.s. government. if there should be amendments with substantive changes to the national flood program, there could be an adverse impact on our revenues or costs of doing business. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; and require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our current or future applications and services. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 20 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk in the annual report.risk factors 11 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results from operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house, we often compete against our potential clients in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies including international providers of similar products and services to ours having a lower cost structure. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. we continually engage in significant efforts to upgrade our applications. if we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of our upgrade efforts, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with our clients for core services generally run for a period of three to five years in our financial segment and 11 table of contents provide for termination fees upon early termination. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us and to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates with favorable terms, our revenues from such renewals and the associated earnings could be negatively impacted. our acquisition strategy subjects us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenues and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate similar or complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth. businesses we acquire may not perform as well as expected or be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. we may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow more money from lenders or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. as part of our transaction processing businesses, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our clients. unauthorized access to our computer systems could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. computer viruses have also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential clients to choose service providers other than us. consolidation in the financial services industry could adversely affect our revenues by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and could make us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. there has been and continues to be merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in the financial services industry. consolidations of financial institutions in the future could reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. if our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. in addition, it is possible that the 12 table of contents larger financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to perform internally some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. operational failures in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could cause us to lose clients. damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of services could damage our relationship with clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. we have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or reduce disruption. a prolonged interruption of our services or network that extends for more than several hours could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenues as a result of such interruption. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential clients to choose service providers other than us. our ability to compete in the health plan administration business requires us to arrange for network provider services with third parties over whom we have no control. in order to provide administrative services to our clients who sponsor self-insured health plans, we must, in most cases, arrange for these clients to have access to a third party provider network. in any particular market, provider networks could refuse to contract with us or only do so on terms that would not allow us to compete with our competitors. if these provider networks refuse to contract with us or only do so on terms that place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to compete or be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. in addition, the large, national health insurance carriers with which we compete for administration services have their own proprietary networks. these networks, in some instances, allow our competitors to offer our target clients access to a health care network that offers better discount rates than we have access to, which may result in us being required to offer lower prices for administrative services in order to compete for clients. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. if we fail to comply with regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, as a trust company or as an administrator of health services, or if the national flood program is amended or substantially changed, our businesses could be harmed. our financial services data processing subsidiaries are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. in addition, our trust subsidiaries are subject to the regulations of the colorado division of banking and the fdic. our health plan management services subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory oversight at both the federal and state levels covering licensing and other day-to-day operating policies and procedures. in addition, 13 table of contents most of our health plan management services businesses are subject to health insurance portability and accountability act regulations that govern the privacy and security of health information to protect against the unauthorized use or disclosure of health information. our flood processing services business depends on administration of the national flood insurance program by the federal government. substantive changes to the current national flood insurance program could have an adverse impact on our revenues or costs of doing business. if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices or pay significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; and require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our current or future applications and services. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on investments and borrowings. we actively monitor these risks through a variety of control procedures involving senior management. our investment support services subsidiaries accept money market account deposits from customers and invest those funds in marketable securities. substantially all of the investments are rated within the highest investment grade categories for securities. our investment support services subsidiaries utilize simulation models for measuring and monitoring interest rate risk and market value of portfolio equities. a formal asset liability committee meets quarterly to review interest rate risks, capital ratios, liquidity levels, portfolio diversification, credit risk ratings and adherence to investment policies and guidelines. at december 31, 2006, mortgage-backed obligations have an average duration of approximately three years and eleven months with most of the remaining investments having a maturity of one year or less. we do not believe significant changes in interest rates would have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed and floating-rate debt and through the use of interest rate swaps. we use interest rate swaps to partially hedge our exposure to interest rate changes and to control financing costs. generally, under these swaps, we agree with a counter-party to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed notional amount. while changes in interest rates could decrease our interest income or increase our interest expense, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to changes in interest rates. based on our long-term debt with variable interest rates as of december 31, 2006, a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense by approximately $4.8 million. based on our internal controls, we believe the risks associated with financial instruments at december 31, 2006 will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.risk factors 12 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house, we often compete against our potential clients in-house capacities. our existing large clients may also explore the possibility of internally performing portions of the outsourced internet banking and electronic billing and payment services that we provide to them. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors, including international providers of similar products and services which may have lower cost structures than ours. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. we continually engage in significant efforts to upgrade our applications. if we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of our upgrade efforts, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. 12 table of contents the market for our electronic transaction services is evolving and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. in order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. in addition, if we are unable to continue to decrease the cost of processing transactions, our margins could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our electronic commerce business also relies on contracts with financial services organizations, businesses, billers, internet portals and other third parties to provide branding for our electronic commerce services and to market our services to their customers. these contracts are an important source of the growth in demand for our electronic commerce products. if any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with our clients for core services generally run for a period of three to five years in our financial segment and provide for termination fees upon early termination. our contracts with financial services organizations for electronic commerce services generally provide for terms of two to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us and to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates with favorable terms, our revenues from such renewals and the associated earnings could be negatively impacted. the integration of fiserv and checkfree may prove to be difficult and may strain our administrative, operational and financial resources. our acquisition of checkfree is substantially larger than any of our previous acquisitions. the expansion of our business and operations resulting from the acquisition of checkfree, including the differences in the strategies and infrastructures of our companies, may strain our administrative, operational and financial resources. the integration of fiserv and checkfree will require the time, effort, attention and dedication of management resources and may distract management from their other responsibilities. the integration process could create a number of potential challenges and adverse consequences, including the possible unexpected loss of key employees, clients or suppliers, a possible loss of sales, an increase in operating and other costs and the need to modify and integrate operating and accounting controls and procedures as well as information systems. we may have difficulty integrating checkfree operations with our operations, including with respect to coordinating geographically separate organizations, coordinating marketing functions and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. in addition, the integration of checkfree may subject us to liabilities existing at checkfree, some of which may be material or unknown. these types of challenges and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition of checkfree. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the businesses of fiserv and checkfree, and we cannot assure you that the combination of the two companies will result in the realization of the anticipated economic, operational and other benefits from the acquisition within expected time frames or at all. in particular, we have estimated that we will be able to achieve annual cost savings of more than $100 million and annual revenue synergies of more than $125 million 13 table of contents over the next several years as we integrate the checkfree acquisition. our ability to achieve those savings and synergies depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, and we will not be able to fully assess these opportunities until after the integration is complete. as a result, the integration of checkfree may not generate expected revenue synergies, cross-selling opportunities or cost savings on the expected time frames or at all. if we are unable to successfully implement our planned integration with checkfree and realize the expected benefits from the acquisition, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our financial results. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent approximately 60% of our total assets at december 31, 2007. these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions, including significant goodwill and intangible assets associated with our acquisition of checkfree. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. any determination resulting in the impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and financial position, which could be material. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately $5.4 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our current level of indebtedness and any future increase in our level of indebtedness could: increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions; decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and limit our flexibility to make acquisitions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms. consolidation in the financial services industry could adversely affect our revenues by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and could make us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. there has been and continues to be merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in the financial services industry. consolidations of financial institutions in the future could reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. if our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. in addition, it is possible that the larger financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to perform internally some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. as part of our transaction processing businesses, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our clients and their customers. unauthorized access to our computer systems 14 table of contents could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. computer viruses have also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could have a negative impact on our reputation, could expose us to liability, could decrease market acceptance of electronic transactions and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. operational failures in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could cause us to lose clients. damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of services could damage our relationship with clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. in addition, we may also be liable to third parties or owe service credits to our clients. we have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or reduce disruption. a prolonged interruption of our services or network that extends for more than several hours could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenues as a result of such interruption. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. current economic conditions could negatively affect demand for our products and services. cyclical fluctuations in economic conditions affect the profitability and revenue growth of those that use our products and services, including banks, credit unions and other financial institutions. as a result, unfavorable economic conditions that negatively impact the results of operations of financial institutions, such as losses from sub-prime mortgages, could negatively impact spending of current and potential clients, and sales to new clients and upgrades or complementary product sales to existing clients could be negatively affected. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our acquisition strategy subjects us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenues and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth. businesses we acquire may not perform as well as expected or be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. we may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons, including: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow more money from lenders or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; 15 table of contents we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. our financial services data processing subsidiaries are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. specifically, we may be required to comply with, among other regulations, the health insurance portability and accountability act, which governs the privacy and security of health information, and the regulations pertaining to the national flood insurance program. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our walk-in payment business could subject us to liability. checkfreepay is licensed as a money transmitter in those states where such licensure is required. these licenses require us to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and also require us to file periodic reports. in addition, this business is subject to regulation in the united states by fincen, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service 16 table of contents mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices or pay significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; and require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our current or future applications and services. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on investments and borrowings. we actively monitor these risks through a variety of control procedures involving senior management. fiserv iss, which is included in discontinued operations, accepts retirement account deposits from clients and invests the funds in securities, substantially all of which are rated within the highest investment grade categories for securities. fiserv iss utilizes simulation models for measuring and monitoring interest rate risk and market value of portfolio equities. a formal asset and liability committee meets quarterly to review interest rate risks, capital ratios, liquidity levels, portfolio diversification, credit risk ratings and adherence to investment policies and guidelines. we do not believe significant changes in interest rates would have a material impact on our operating results from discontinued operations or our financial condition. 35 table of contents we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed and floating-rate debt and through the use of interest rate hedge contracts. we currently use interest rate swaps to partially hedge our exposure to interest rate changes and to control financing costs. generally, under these swaps, we agree with a counter-party to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed notional amount. based on our long-term debt with variable interest rates as of december 31, 2007, a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2008 by approximately $10 million. we believe the risks associated with financial instruments at december 31, 2007 will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.risk factors 10 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results from operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we may be particularly exposed to the current global economic recession. for example, our financial segment has been negatively impacted by a significant reduction in home-equity processing revenues resulting from the decline in the u.s. mortgage markets. a poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. consolidations and failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenues by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. many banks and financial institutions are experiencing significant operating losses, including many of our clients. in some cases, these operating losses have resulted in the failure and/or consolidation of banks and other financial institutions. failures, mergers and consolidations of banks and financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenues. further, if our clients fail or merge with, or are acquired by, other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. it is also possible that the larger banks or financial institutions 10 resulting from mergers or consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house, we often compete against our potential clients in-house capabilities. our existing large clients may also explore the possibility of internally performing portions of the outsourced internet banking and electronic billing and payment services that we provide to them. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies, including international providers of similar products and services to ours, having a lower cost structure. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. we continually engage in significant efforts to upgrade our products and services. if we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of new technology, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with our clients for account processing services generally run for a period of three to five years in our financial segment and provide for termination fees upon early termination. our contracts with financial services organizations for electronic commerce services generally provide for terms of two to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us and to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. in addition, it is possible that one or more clients could seek to renegotiate terms with us. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our electronic transaction services is evolving and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. in order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. in addition, if we are unable to continue to decrease the cost of processing transactions, our margins could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our 11 electronic commerce business also relies on contracts with financial services organizations, businesses, billers, internet portals and other third parties to provide branding for our electronic commerce services and to market our services to their customers. these contracts are an important source of the growth in demand for our electronic commerce products. if any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our financial results. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent approximately 70% of our total assets at december 31, 2008. these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions, including significant goodwill and intangible assets associated with our acquisition of checkfree. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could materially negatively affect our results of operations. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of fiserv health, fiserv iss or fiserv insurance pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. in 2008, we completed the sale of several significant businesses. in connection with the sales, we made representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agreed to be liable for certain liabilities resulting from our operation of such businesses prior to the sale. pursuant to the terms of the agreements, we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers for certain material adverse events arising out of or related to our prior operation of the business and for any breach of a representation or warranty. our obligation to indemnify a purchaser in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not complete the sale of the remainder of fiserv iss in the time frame we anticipate, or at all, and we are subject to the risks of the operation of that business. we have entered into an agreement to sell the remainder of fiserv iss, which primarily provides back office and custody services for self-directed individual retirement accounts. the completion of the sale is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: the satisfaction of the conditions to the completion of the sale; the parties to the sale obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals, including approval from the fdic; legal proceedings that may be instituted against us or others; the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of the applicable disposition agreement; and our ability to obtain the expected proceeds from the disposition. these and other factors could cause our ability to complete the disposition on the terms and within the time frame anticipated to be different than expected. therefore, there is no guarantee that we will be able to complete the transaction. we are subject to the risks of operating the remainder of the fiserv iss business until we complete the sale, or if we are unable to complete the sale, which include compliance with applicable regulations, data security risks, and potential legal proceedings with respect to the operation of this business. such risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. we may violate the rights of others without our knowledge. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if a litigant establishes that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, or that our intellectual property rights are invalid, we may be forced to change our products, services, or manufacturing processes, and such changes may be expensive or impractical. we may then be forced to seek royalty or license agreements from such litigant. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may 12 be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. in addition, we may also be liable for significant financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur significant expense in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation, and may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. we electronically receive, process, store and transmit our clients and their customers sensitive information. unauthorized access to our computer systems could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. computer viruses can be distributed and rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could have a negative impact on our reputation, could expose us to liability, could decrease market acceptance of electronic transactions and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2008, we had approximately $4.1 billion of total long-term debt, including current maturities. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our current level of indebtedness and any future increase in our level of indebtedness could: increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions; decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and limit our flexibility to make acquisitions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms, particularly given current economic and credit market conditions. we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition of checkfree. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the businesses of fiserv and checkfree, and we cannot assure you that the combination of the two companies will result in the realization of the anticipated economic, operational and other benefits from the acquisition within expected time frames or at all. in particular, we have estimated that we will be able to achieve annual cost savings of more than $100 million and annual revenue synergies of more than $125 million over the next several years as we integrate the checkfree acquisition. our ability to achieve those savings and synergies depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, and we will not be able to fully assess these opportunities until after the integration is complete. as a result, the integration of checkfree may not generate expected revenue synergies, cross-selling opportunities or cost savings on the expected time frames or at all. if we are unable to successfully implement our planned integration with checkfree and realize the expected benefits from the acquisition, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 13 our acquisition strategy subjects us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenues and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth. businesses we acquire may not perform as well as expected or be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. we may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow more money from lenders or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. operational failures in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could cause us to lose clients. damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of services could damage our relationship with clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. in addition, we may also be liable to third parties or owe service credits to our clients. a prolonged interruption of our services or network that extends for more than several hours could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenues as a result of such interruption. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate 14 remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. our financial services data processing subsidiaries are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our walk-in payment business could subject us to liability. checkfreepay is licensed as a money transmitter in those states where such licensure is required. these licenses require us to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and also require us to file periodic reports. in addition, this business is subject to regulation in the united states by fincen, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on investments and borrowings and foreign currency risk. we actively monitor these risks through a variety of control procedures involving senior management. in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable merchants. these subscriber funds are generally invested in short-term instruments that are guaranteed by the united states government. subscriber funds, which are not included in our consolidated balance sheets, can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment activity, and totaled approximately $1.1 billion as of december 31, 2008. based upon interest rates and subscriber funds balances at december 31, 2008, a 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would increase or decrease our annual income from continuing operations by approximately $10 million. fiserv iss, which is included in discontinued operations, is a custodian of self-directed individual retirement accounts. it accepts retirement account deposits from clients and invests the funds in securities, substantially all of which are rated within the highest investment grade categories for securities. fiserv iss utilizes simulation models for measuring and monitoring interest rate risk and market value of portfolio equities. a formal asset liability committee meets quarterly to review interest rate risks, capital ratios, liquidity levels, portfolio diversification, credit risk ratings and adherence to investment policies and guidelines. we do not believe significant changes in interest rates would have a material impact on our operating results from discontinued operations or our financial condition. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed and floating-rate debt and through the use of interest rate hedge contracts. we currently use interest rate swaps to partially hedge our exposure to interest rate changes and to control financing costs. generally, under these swaps, we agree with a 31 counter-party to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed notional amount. based on our long-term debt with variable interest rates as of december 31, 2008, a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2009 by approximately $10 million. we believe the risks associated with financial instruments at december 31, 2008 will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. we conduct business in the u.s. and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2008, there would not have been a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial position.risk factors 9 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we are exposed to the current global economic conditions in the financial services industry. a prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. consolidations and failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenues by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. many financial institutions are experiencing operating losses, including many of our clients. in some cases, these operating losses have resulted in the failure and/or consolidation of banks and other financial institutions. failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenues. further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by 9 table of contents other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. it is also possible that the larger banks or financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house, we often compete against our potential clients in-house capabilities. our existing large clients may also explore the possibility of internally performing portions of the outsourced services that we provide to them. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies, including international providers of similar products and services to ours, having a lower cost structure. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. we continually engage in significant efforts to upgrade our products and services. if we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of new technology, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with our clients for account processing services generally run for a period of three to five years in our financial segment and provide for termination fees upon early termination. our contracts with financial services organizations for electronic commerce services generally provide for terms of two to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us and to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. in addition, it is possible that clients could seek to renegotiate terms with us. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our electronic transaction services is evolving and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. in order to consistently 10 table of contents increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. in addition, if we are unable to continue to decrease the cost of processing transactions, our margins could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our electronic commerce business also relies on contracts with financial services organizations, businesses, billers, internet portals and other third parties to provide branding for our electronic commerce services and to market our services to their customers. these contracts are an important source of the growth in demand for our electronic commerce products. if any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our financial results. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent approximately 75% of our total assets at december 31, 2009. these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions, including significant goodwill and intangible assets associated with our acquisition of checkfree. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could materially negatively affect our results of operations. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. in the past several years, we have sold several businesses, including fiserv health, fiserv iss, fiserv insurance, and fiserv lfs. in connection with these sales, we made representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agreed to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. in particular, in connection with the sale of fiserv iss, we agreed to retain, or to indemnify the buyers from, certain liabilities associated with our operation of the business prior its sale, including liabilities that relate to legal actions, including class action lawsuits, individual lawsuits and arbitration proceedings, in which plaintiffs, who are owners of self-directed individual retirement accounts for which fiserv iss acted as a custodian, allege that we are responsible for the losses caused by ponzi schemes in which such plaintiffs were involved. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may violate the rights of others without our knowledge. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, or that our intellectual property rights are invalid, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical. we may then be forced to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. in addition, we may also be liable for significant financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur significant expense in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation, and may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. 11 table of contents security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. we receive, process, store and transmit our clients and their customers sensitive information electronically. unauthorized access to our computer systems could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. computer viruses can be distributed and rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could have a negative impact on our reputation, could expose us to liability, could decrease market acceptance of electronic transactions and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2009, we had approximately $3.6 billion of total long-term debt, including current maturities. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our current level of indebtedness and any future increase in our level of indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms, particularly given current and anticipated economic and credit market conditions. our acquisition strategy subjects us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenues and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth. businesses we acquire may not perform as well as expected or be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. we may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow more money from lenders or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. 12 table of contents operational failures in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could cause us to lose clients. damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of services could damage our relationship with clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. in addition, we may also be liable to third parties or owe service credits to our clients. a prolonged interruption of our services or network that extends for more than several hours could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenues as a result of such interruption. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. our financial services data processing subsidiaries are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our walk-in payment business could subject us to liability. checkfreepay is licensed as a money transmitter in those states where such licensure is required. these licenses require us to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and also require us to file 13 table of contents periodic reports. in addition, this business is subject to regulation in the united states by fincen, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitativ e disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency risk. we actively monitor these risks through a variety of control procedures involving senior management. in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable merchants. these subscriber funds are generally invested in short-term instruments that are guaranteed by the united states government. subscriber funds, which are not included in our consolidated balance sheets, can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment activity, and totaled approximately $1.4 billion as of december 31, 2009. based on interest rates and subscriber funds balances at december 31, 2009, a 1% increase in applicable interest rates would increase our annual income from continuing operations by approximately $15 million, and if applicable interest rates decreased to zero, our annual income from continuing operations would decrease by less than $2 million. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed and floating-rate debt and through the use of interest rate hedge contracts. we currently use interest rate swaps, with total notional values of $1.2 billion at december 31, 2009, to partially hedge our exposure to interest rate changes and to control financing costs. generally, under these swaps, we agree with a counter-party to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed notional amount. based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates as of december 31, 2009, a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2010 by less than $10 million. we conduct business in the u.s. and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2009, there would not have been a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial position. 29 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we are exposed to the current global economic conditions in the financial services industry. a more troubled or prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. consolidations and failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. many financial institutions are experiencing operating losses, including many of our clients. in some cases, these operating losses have resulted in the failure and/or consolidation of banks and other financial institutions. failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. it is also possible that the larger banks or financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. the market for our services is competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house, we often compete against our potential clients in-house capabilities. our existing large clients may also seek to perform internally portions of the services that we currently provide to them. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies, including international providers of similar products and services to ours, having a lower cost structure. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 table of contents if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. we continually engage in significant efforts to upgrade our products and services. if we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of new technology, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with our clients for account processing services generally run for a period of three to five years in our financial segment and provide for termination fees upon early termination. our contracts with financial services organizations for electronic commerce services generally provide for terms of two to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us and to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. in addition, it is possible that clients could seek to renegotiate terms with us. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our electronic transaction services is evolving and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, security, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. in order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. in addition, if we are unable to continue to decrease the cost of processing transactions, our margins could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our electronic commerce business also relies on contracts with financial services organizations, businesses, billers, internet portals and other third parties to provide branding for our electronic commerce services and to market our services to their customers. these contracts are an important source of the growth in demand for our electronic commerce products. if any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. in the past several years, we have sold several businesses, including fiserv health, fiserv iss, fiserv insurance, and fiserv lfs. in connection with these sales, we made representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agreed to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. in particular, in connection with the sale of fiserv iss, we agreed to retain, or to indemnify the buyers from, certain liabilities associated with our operation of the business prior to its sale, including liabilities that relate to legal actions, including class action lawsuits, individual lawsuits and arbitration 11 table of contents proceedings, in which plaintiffs, who are owners of self-directed individual retirement accounts for which fiserv iss acted as a custodian, allege that we are responsible for the losses caused by ponzi schemes in which such plaintiffs were involved. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the implementation of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and related regulations may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. on july 21, 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act ) was signed into law. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the united states, establishes the new federal bureau of consumer financial protection (the bcfp ) and requires the bcfp and other federal agencies to implement numerous new regulations. at this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the dodd-frank act or the resulting regulations will impact our business or the businesses of our current and potential clients. to the extent the regulations adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act negatively impact the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. we could be required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to comply with additional regulations or to modify the manner in which we provide products and services to our clients; and such regulations could limit how much we can charge for our services. we may not be able to update our existing products and services, or develop new ones, to satisfy our clients needs. any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may violate the rights of others without our knowledge. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, or that our intellectual property rights are invalid, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical. we may then be forced to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. in addition, we may also be liable for significant financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur significant expense in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation, and may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. we receive, process, store and transmit our clients and their customers sensitive information electronically. unauthorized access to our computer systems could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. computer viruses can be distributed and rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could have a negative impact on our reputation, could expose us to liability, could decrease market acceptance of electronic transactions and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 table of contents operational failures in our outsourcing or transaction processing businesses could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our outsourcing or transaction processing businesses could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. a prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on platforms used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent approximately 75% of our total assets at december 31, 2010. these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions, including significant goodwill and intangible assets associated with our acquisition of checkfree. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could materially negatively affect our results of operations. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately $3.4 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our current level of indebtedness and any future increase in our level of indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms, particularly given current and anticipated economic and credit market conditions. 13 table of contents acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth. or, businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. we may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow more money from lenders or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. our financial services data processing subsidiaries are not currently directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. it is also possible that new regulations will be imposed on us by the dodd-frank act. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability. checkfreepay is licensed as a money transmitter in those states where such licensure is required. these licenses require us to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and also require us to file 14 table of contents periodic reports. in addition, the businesses are subject to regulation in the united states by fincen, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency risk. we actively monitor these risks through a variety of control procedures involving senior management. in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable merchants. these subscriber funds are invested in short-term instruments that are guaranteed by the united states government. subscriber funds, which are not included in our consolidated balance sheets, can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment activity, and totaled approximately $1.4 billion as of december 31, 2010. based on interest rates and subscriber funds balances at december 31, 2010, a 1% increase in applicable interest rates would increase our annual income from continuing operations by approximately $10 million, and if applicable interest rates decreased to zero, our annual income from continuing operations would decrease by less than $5 million. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed and floating-rate debt and through the use of interest rate hedge contracts. we currently use interest rate swaps with total notional values of $1 billion and forward-starting swaps with total notional values of $200 million at december 31, 2010, to partially hedge our exposure to interest rate changes and to control financing costs. generally, under these swaps, we agree with a counter-party to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed notional amount. based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates at december 31, 2010, a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2011 by approximately $1 million. we conduct business in the u.s. and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2010, there would not have been a material adverse impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position. 32 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we are exposed to the current global economic conditions in the financial services industry. a more troubled or prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. the market for our services is competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. many of our larger existing and potential 9 table of contents clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. as a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients in-house capabilities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies, including international providers of similar products and services to ours, having a lower cost structure. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. we continually engage in significant efforts to upgrade our products and services. if we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of new technology, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. consolidations and failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. many financial institutions are experiencing operating losses, including some of our clients. in some cases, these operating losses have resulted in the failure and/or consolidation of financial institutions. failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. it is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the market for our electronic transaction services is evolving and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. in order to consistently 10 table of contents increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. in addition, if we are unable to continue to decrease the cost of processing transactions, our margins could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our electronic commerce business also relies on contracts with financial services organizations, businesses, billers, internet portals and other third parties to provide branding for our electronic commerce services and to market our services to their customers. these contracts are important to the growth in demand for our electronic commerce products. if any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the implementation of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and related regulations may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 was signed into law. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the united states, establishes the new federal bureau of consumer financial protection (the bcfp ) and requires the bcfp and other federal agencies to implement numerous new regulations. it is difficult to predict the extent to which the dodd-frank act or the resulting regulations will impact our business or the businesses of our current and potential clients over the long term. to the extent the regulations adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act negatively impact the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. we could be required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to comply with additional regulations or to modify the manner in which we provide products and services to our clients; and such regulations could limit how much we can charge for our services. we may not be able to update our existing products and services, or develop new ones, to satisfy our clients needs. any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. we receive, process, store and transmit our clients and their customers sensitive information electronically. unauthorized access to our computer systems could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. we rely on industry-standard encryption, network and internet security systems; however, advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may compromise or breach our security measures. if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future, including in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, we may incur increased compliance costs or become subject to more stringent limitations on business processes. in addition, computer viruses distributed via the internet could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses or to comply with increasingly stringent privacy laws or security requirements could have a negative impact on our reputation, could expose us to liability, could decrease market acceptance of electronic transactions, and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its 11 table of contents intellectual property rights, or that our intellectual property rights are invalid, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical. we may then be forced to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. we may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation, and may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. operational failures could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our transaction processing businesses could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. a prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on platforms used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. in the past several years, we have sold several businesses, including fiserv health, fiserv iss, fiserv insurance and fiserv lfs. in connection with these sales, we made representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agreed to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 table of contents acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth. or, businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. we are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. it is also possible that new regulations will be imposed on us by the dodd-frank act. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability. checkfreepay, a fiserv subsidiary, is licensed as a money transmitter in those states where such licensure is required. these licenses require us to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and also require us to file periodic reports. in addition, our payments businesses are subject to federal regulation in the united states, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 77% of our total assets at december 31, 2011. these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions, including significant goodwill and intangible assets associated with our acquisition of checkfree. on at least an 13 table of contents annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $3.4 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our current level of indebtedness and any future increase in our level of indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms, particularly given current and anticipated economic and credit market conditions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. we actively monitor these risks through a variety of control procedures involving senior management. in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. these subscriber funds are invested in short-term instruments that are guaranteed by the united states government. subscriber funds are not included in our consolidated balance sheets and can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity. based on average subscriber funds balances during 2011 of approximately $1.0 billion, a 1% increase in applicable interest rates would increase our annual pre-tax income by approximately $10 million, and if applicable interest rates decreased to zero, our annual pre-tax income would decrease by less than $5 million. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt and through the use of interest rate hedge contracts. we currently use interest rate swaps with total notional values of $1 billion and forward-starting swaps with total notional values of $550 million at december 31, 2011 to partially hedge our exposure to interest rate changes and to control financing costs. generally, under these swaps, we agree with a counter-party to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed notional amount. based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates at december 31, 2011, a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2012 by less than $5 million. we conduct business in the united states and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. in 2011, 7% of our total revenue was from clients in foreign countries. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2011, there would not have been a material adverse impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position. 31 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we are exposed to the current global economic conditions in the financial services industry. a more troubled or prolonged poor economic 9 environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. the market for our services is competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. as a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients in-house capabilities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies, including international providers of similar products and services to ours, having a lower cost structure. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. we continually engage in significant efforts to upgrade our products and services. if we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of new technology, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. the market for our electronic transaction services continues to evolve and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow, or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. in order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. in addition, if we are unable to continue to decrease the cost of processing transactions, our margins could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the success of our electronic commerce business also relies in part on contracts with financial services organizations, businesses, billers, internet portals and other third parties to market our services to their customers. these contracts are important to the growth in demand for our electronic commerce products. if any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients, and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the 10 opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. consolidations and failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. many financial institutions are experiencing operating losses, including some of our clients. in some cases, these operating losses have resulted in the failure and/or consolidation of financial institutions. failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. it is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the implementation of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and related regulations may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( dodd-frank act ) was signed into law. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the united states, and establishes a new federal interagency council called the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ) and a new federal bureau called the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ), which we discuss above under item 1. business government regulation . the dodd-frank act requires the cfpb and other federal agencies to implement numerous new regulations. in addition, the fsoc is empowered to designate certain financial institutions as well as non-bank financial companies as systemically important financial institutions subject to heightened federal oversight, and the cfpb rule-making, supervisory and enforcement power related to consumer financial protection laws may extend to service providers for large insured depository institutions or credit unions. it is difficult to predict the extent to which the dodd-frank act, the fsoc, the cfpb or the resulting regulations will impact our business or the businesses of our current and potential clients over the long term. if the fsoc designates our company or any of our subsidiaries as a systemically important financial institution, or the cfpb adopts rules and exercises supervisory authority over service providers like us, we could be subject to a greater degree of direct federal oversight than in the past which could slow our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. to the extent the regulations adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act negatively impact the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. we could be required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to comply with additional regulations or oversight or to modify the manner in which we provide products and services to our clients; and such regulations could directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services. we may not be able to update our existing products and services, or develop new ones, to satisfy our clients needs. any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches, computer malware or other cyber attacks could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. our operations routinely involve receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our associates, our clients and their customers. any unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, or similar act by any malevolent party could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or the systems of our clients or vendors. these events could create financial liability, regulatory sanction, or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients or cause 11 current or potential clients to choose another service provider. although we encounter threats from time to time, none of which have materially impacted us, and we continue to seek to maintain a robust program of information security and controls, the impact of a material event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational failures could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our transaction processing businesses could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. such operational failure could be due to the failure of third party networks and systems we rely on to deliver our services and over which we have limited to no control. interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. a prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on platforms used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, or that our intellectual property rights are invalid, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical. we may then be forced to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. we may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation and may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in 12 every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. in the past several years, we sold several significant businesses. in connection with these sales, we made representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agreed to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth. or, businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. we are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, we are subject to a number of state and federal regulations, including privacy laws, and our operations are examined on a regular basis by various state and federal regulatory authorities. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability. certain fiserv subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters in those states where such licensure is required. these licenses require us to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and also require us 13 to file periodic reports. in addition, our direct-to-consumer payments businesses are subject to federal regulation in the united states, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 76% of our total assets at december 31, 2012. these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately $3.2 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our current level of indebtedness and any future increase in our level of indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms, particularly given current and anticipated economic and credit market conditions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. we actively monitor these risks through a variety of control procedures involving senior management. in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. these subscriber funds are primarily invested in short-term instruments that are guaranteed by the united states government. subscriber funds are not included in our consolidated balance sheets and can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity. based on average subscriber funds balances during 2012 of approximately $1.0 billion, a 1% increase in applicable interest rates would increase our annual pre-tax income by approximately $10 million, and if applicable interest rates decreased to zero, our annual pre-tax income would decrease by less than $5 million. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt and previously through the use of interest rate hedge contracts. we previously maintained interest rate swap agreements with total notional values of $1 billion and forward-starting swaps with a total notional value of $550 million to partially hedge our exposure to interest rate changes and to control financing costs. all interest rate hedge contracts were settled or expired in september 2012. based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates at december 31, 2012, a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2013 by less than $5 million. we conduct business in the united states and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. in 2012, 7% of our total revenue was from clients in foreign countries. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2012, there would not have been a material adverse impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position. 32risk factors 9 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we are exposed to the current global economic conditions in the financial services industry. a prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 table of contents we operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. the market for our services is competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. as a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients in-house capabilities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies, including international providers of similar products and services to ours, having a lower cost structure. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. we continually engage in significant efforts to upgrade our products and services. if we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of new technology, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. the market for our electronic transaction services continues to evolve and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow, or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. in order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. the success of our electronic commerce business also relies in part on contracts with financial institutions, billers and other third parties to market our services to their customers. these contracts are important to the growth in demand for our electronic commerce products. if any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients, and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use 10 table of contents of our services. it is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches, computer malware or other cyber attacks could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. our operations routinely involve receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our associates, our clients and their customers. any unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, or similar act by a malevolent party could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or the systems of our clients or vendors. these events could create financial liability, regulatory sanction, or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients or cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider. in addition, as these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the threats that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, the impact of a material event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational failures could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our transaction processing businesses, including our business continuity and disaster recovery capabilities, could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. such operational failure could be due to the failure of third party networks and systems we rely on to deliver our services and over which we have limited or no control. interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. a prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. the implementation of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and related regulations may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( dodd-frank act ) was signed into law. the dodd-frank act represented a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the united states and established a new federal interagency council called the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ) and a new federal bureau called the consumer financial protection bureau 11 table of contents ( cfpb ). the dodd-frank act requires the cfpb and other federal agencies to implement numerous new regulations, and the cfpb has issued guidance that applies to supervised service providers which the cfpb has defined to include service providers, like us, to cfpb supervised banks and nonbanks. the fsoc is empowered to designate certain financial institutions as well as non-bank financial companies as systemically important financial institutions subject to heightened federal oversight, and the cfpb rule-making, supervisory and enforcement power related to consumer financial protection laws may extend to service providers for large insured depository institutions or credit unions. it is difficult to predict the extent to which the dodd-frank act, the fsoc, the cfpb or the resulting regulations will impact our business or the businesses of our current and potential clients over the long term. if the fsoc designates our company or any of our subsidiaries as a systemically important financial institution, or the cfpb adopts additional rules and exercises supervisory authority over service providers like us, we could be subject to a greater degree of direct federal oversight than in the past which could slow our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. to the extent the regulations adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act negatively impact the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. we could be required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to comply with additional regulations or oversight or to modify the manner in which we provide products and services to our clients; and such regulations could directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services. we may not be able to update our existing products and services, or develop new ones, to satisfy our clients needs. any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. we are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, we are subject to contractual requirements imposed by the financial institutions with respect to a number of state and federal regulations, including privacy laws, and our operations are examined on a regular basis by various state and federal regulatory authorities. also, regulators such as the cfpb are increasingly signaling an intent to enforce regulations directly against service providers to financial institutions, and any such direct enforcement could result in increased operating costs for us and additional restrictions on our business processes. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability. certain fiserv subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters in those states where such licensure is required. these licenses require us to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and also require us to file periodic reports. in addition, our direct-to-consumer payments business, comprised of our walk-in bill payment, prepaid card services, online bill payment and popmoney person-to-person payment services, is subject to federal regulation in the united states, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers, or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if the owner of 12 table of contents intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, or that our intellectual property rights are invalid, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical. we may then be forced to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. we may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation and may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth, or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. in the past several years, we sold several significant businesses. in connection with these sales, we made representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agreed to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 table of contents the failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. if we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical and compliance personnel, our future success could be harmed. our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. our products and services require sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients demands. if we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the payment card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to card association and network rules governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover or other similar organizations. the rules of the card networks are set by their boards which may be influenced by card issues, and some of those issuers are our competitors with respect to transaction processing services. if we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our certifications could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes to the card association and network rules, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 77% of our total assets at december 31, 2013. these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $3.8 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our current level of indebtedness and any future increase in our level of indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms, particularly given current and anticipated economic and credit market conditions. 14 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. our senior management actively monitors these risks. in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. these subscriber funds are invested in short-term, highly liquid investments. subscriber funds are not included in our consolidated balance sheets and can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity. based on daily average subscriber funds balances during 2013 of approximately $1.0 billion, a 1% increase in applicable interest rates would increase our annual pre-tax income by approximately $10 million, and if applicable interest rates decreased to zero, our annual pre-tax income would decrease by less than $5 million. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt. we have also used interest rate hedge contracts. we previously maintained interest rate swap agreements with total notional values of $1.0 billion and forward-starting swaps with a total notional value of $550 million to partially hedge our exposure to interest rate changes and to control financing costs. all interest rate hedge contracts were settled or expired in september 2012. based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates at december 31, 2013, a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2014 by approximately $9 million. 32 table of contents we conduct business in the united states and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. we have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with total notional values of approximately $53 million to hedge foreign currency exposure to the indian rupee. in 2013, approximately 7% of our total revenue was from clients in foreign countries. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2013, there would not have been a material adverse impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position. 33 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. we operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. the markets for our services are highly competitive from new and existing competitors. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. as a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients in-house capabilities. we also expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new well-funded competitors and new technologies, including technology companies not historically in the financial services industry, start-ups and international providers of similar products and services to ours. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 table of contents if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. if we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we are exposed to the global economic conditions in the financial services industry. a prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the market for our electronic transaction services continues to evolve and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow, or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by a combination of factors including speed, cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. in order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. the success of our electronic commerce businesses also relies in part on financial institutions, billers and other third parties to market our services to their customers. if any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one or more of our competitors to provide products and services. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use 9 table of contents of our services. it is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches, computer malware or other cyber attacks could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. our operations routinely involve receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our associates, our clients and their customers. any unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service or similar act by a malevolent party could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or the systems of our clients or vendors. these events could create financial liability, regulatory sanction or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients or cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider. in addition, as these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the threats that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, the impact of a material event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational failures could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our transaction processing businesses, including our business continuity and disaster recovery capabilities, could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. an operational failure could be caused by the failure of third party networks and systems upon which we rely to deliver our services and over which we have limited or no control. interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. a prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. the implementation of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and related regulations may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( dodd-frank act ) was enacted. the dodd-frank act represented a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the united states and established, among other things, a new federal bureau called the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). the dodd-frank act requires the cfpb and other federal agencies to implement 10 table of contents numerous new regulations, and the cfpb has issued guidance that applies to supervised service providers which the cfpb has defined to include service providers, like us, to cfpb supervised banks and nonbanks. although we have not experienced to date a materially adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition due to these changes in the law, it is difficult to predict with certainty the extent to which the dodd-frank act, the cfpb or the resulting regulations will impact our business or the businesses of our current and potential clients over the long term. if the cfpb adopts additional rules and exercises supervisory authority over service providers like us, we could be subject to a greater degree of direct federal oversight than in the past, which could slow our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry, require us to make compliance investments and/or limit our fees or other revenue sources. to the extent the regulations adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act negatively impact the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. we could be required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to comply with additional regulations or oversight or to modify the manner in which we provide products and services to our clients; and such regulations could directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services. we may not be able to update our existing products and services, or develop new ones, to satisfy our clients needs. any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. we are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, we are subject to contractual requirements imposed by the financial institutions with respect to a number of state and federal regulations, including privacy laws, and our operations are examined on a regular basis by various state and federal regulatory authorities. also, regulators such as the cfpb are increasingly signaling an intent to enforce regulations directly against service providers to financial institutions, and any such direct enforcement could result in increased operating costs for us and additional restrictions on our business processes. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability. certain fiserv subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters in those states where such licensure is required. in connection with such licensure, we are required to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and to file periodic reports. in addition, our direct-to-consumer payments businesses, comprised of our walk-in bill payment, prepaid card services, online bill payment and popmoney person-to-person payment services, are subject to federal regulation in the united states, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers, or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be 11 table of contents expensive or impractical, or we may need to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. we may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation and may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth, or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. we have in the past and may in the future sell businesses. in connection with sales of businesses, we make representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agree to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 table of contents the failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. if we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, compliance and sales personnel, our future success could be harmed. our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. our products and services require sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients demands. if we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the payment card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to card association and network rules governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover or other similar organizations. the rules of the card networks are set by their boards which may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. if we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our certifications could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes to the card association and network rules, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 77% of our total assets at december 31, 2014. these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. in addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $3.8 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms. 13 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. our senior management actively monitors these risks. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt. based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates at december 31, 2014, a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2015 by approximately $8.5 million. in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. these subscriber funds are invested in short-term, highly liquid investments. subscriber funds are not included in our consolidated balance sheets and can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity. based on daily average subscriber funds balances during 2014 of approximately $1.0 billion, a 1% increase in applicable interest rates would increase our annual pre-tax income by approximately $10 million, and if applicable interest rates decreased to zero, our annual pre-tax income would decrease by less than $5 million. we conduct business in the united states and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. we have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with total notional values of approximately $73 million as of december 31, 2014 to hedge foreign currency exposure to the indian rupee. in 2014, approximately 6% of our total revenue was from clients in foreign countries. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2014, there would not have been a material adverse impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position. 31 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors you should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. we operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. the markets for our services are highly competitive from new and existing competitors. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. as a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients' in-house capabilities. we also expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new well-funded competitors and new technologies, including large technology, media and other companies not historically in the financial services industry, start-ups and international providers of similar products and services to ours. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients, and our ability to grow may be limited. the markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. we may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. if we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients, to attract new ones and to grow profitably. the market for our electronic transaction services continues to evolve and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. if the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow, or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by a combination of factors including speed, cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. in addition, we may face challenges meeting local political, regulatory, business and economic conditions as we grow internationally, particularly in emerging market economies, and we may find it difficult to manage and oversee operations far from our headquarters. in order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. the success of our electronic commerce businesses also relies in part on financial institutions, billers and other third parties to market our services to their customers. if any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 7 table of contents if we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. at the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one or more of our competitors to provide products and services. if we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. our business may be adversely impacted by u.s. and global market and economic conditions. for the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. given this concentration, we are exposed to the global economic conditions in the financial services industry. a prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. it is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches, computer malware or other cyber attacks could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. our operations depend on receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our associates, our clients and their customers. any unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service or similar act by a malevolent party could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or the systems of our clients or vendors. these events could create costly litigation, significant financial liability, increased regulatory scrutiny, financial sanctions and a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients and cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, as these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the threats that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, we may not be able to prevent a material event in the future, and the impact of a material event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational failures could harm our business and reputation. an operational failure in our transaction processing businesses, including our business continuity and disaster recovery capabilities, could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. an operational failure could be caused by the failure of third party networks and systems upon which we rely to deliver our services and over which we have limited or no control. interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. a prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. in addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems used by our clients. defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and 8 table of contents remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. the implementation of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and related regulations may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( dodd-frank act ) was enacted. the dodd-frank act represented a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the united states and established, among other things, a new federal bureau called the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). the dodd-frank act requires the cfpb and other federal agencies to implement numerous new regulations, and the cfpb has issued guidance that applies to supervised service providers, which the cfpb has defined to include service providers, like us, to cfpb supervised banks and nonbanks. it is difficult to predict with certainty the extent to which the dodd-frank act, the cfpb or the resulting regulations will impact our business or the businesses of our current and potential clients over the long term. if the cfpb adopts additional rules and exercises supervisory authority over service providers like us, we could be subject to a greater degree of direct federal oversight than in the past, which could slow our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry, require us to make compliance investments and/or limit our fees or other revenue sources. to the extent the regulations adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act negatively impact the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. we could be required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to comply with additional regulations or oversight or to modify the manner in which we provide products and services to our clients; and such regulations could directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services. we may not be able to update our existing products and services, or develop new ones, to satisfy our clients' needs. any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. we are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, we are subject to contractual requirements imposed by the financial institutions with respect to a number of state and federal regulations, including privacy laws, and our operations are examined on a regular basis by various state and federal regulatory authorities. also, regulators are signaling interest in enforcing regulations directly against service providers to financial institutions, and any such direct enforcement could result in increased operating costs for us and additional restrictions on our business processes. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability. certain of our subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters in those states where such licensure is required. in connection with such licensure, we are required to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and to file periodic reports. in addition, our direct-to-consumer payments businesses, including our walk-in bill payment, online bill payment and popmoney person-to-person payment services, are subject to federal regulation in the united states, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. in addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers, or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. if we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the payment card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to card association and network rules governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover or other similar organizations, including the payment card industry data security standard enforced by the major card brands. the rules of the card networks are set by their boards which may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. if we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our certifications could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes to the card association and network rules, that we do not successfully address, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to 9 table of contents clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. if the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical, or we may need to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. if we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. we may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation and may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. a major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth, or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. in addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. these risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. we may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. we have in the past and may in the future sell businesses. in connection with sales of businesses, we may make representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agree to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. if we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, compliance and sales personnel, our future success could be harmed. our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. our products and services require 10 table of contents sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients' demands. our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. the impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 76% of our total assets at december 31, 2015 . these assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. on at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. in addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately $4.3 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. we are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. our senior management actively monitors these risks. we manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt. based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates at december 31, 2015 , a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2016 by approximately $10 million . in connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. these subscriber funds are invested in short-term, highly liquid investments. subscriber funds are not included in our consolidated balance sheets and can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity. based on daily average subscriber funds balances during 2015 of approximately $1.1 billion , a 1% increase in applicable interest rates would increase our annual pre-tax income by approximately $10 million , and if applicable interest rates decreased to zero, our annual pre-tax income would decrease by less than $5 million. we conduct business in the united states and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. we have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with total notional values of approximately $85 million as of december 31, 2015 to hedge foreign currency exposure to the indian rupee. in 2015 , approximately 6% of our total revenue was from clients in foreign countries. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the u.s. dollar. if these rates were 10% higher or lower at december 31, 2015 , there would not have been a material impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position. 26 table of contents