risk factors 13 risk factors. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on form 10-q for future periods and current 1 table of contents reports on form 8-k as we file them with the securities and exchange commission, or the sec, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through forms 8-k or otherwise, for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any responsibility to update any forward-looking statements to reflect changes in underlying assumptions or factors, new information, future events, or otherwise, and you should not rely upon these forward-looking statements after the date of this report. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview we are the world largest online travel company, empowering users to plan and have the perfect trip. our travel research platform aggregates reviews and opinions from our community about destinations, accommodations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, or b&amp;bs, specialty lodging and vacation rentals), restaurants and activities throughout the world through our flagship tripadvisor brand. our branded websites include tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the website in 29 other countries, including in china under the brand daodao.com. our-branded websites globally received more than 50 million unique visitors in january 2012 (according to comscore), and we have built a marketable base of more than 20 million members and over 60 million reviews and opinions. beyond travel-related content, our websites also include links to the websites of our customers, including travel advertisers, allowing travelers to directly book their travel arrangements. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we manage and operate websites under 18 other travel media brands, connected by the common goal of providing comprehensive travel planning resources across the travel sector. corporate background the original tripadvisor business was founded in february 2000 and was acquired by iac/interactivecorp, or iac, in april 2004. in august 2005, iac spun-off its portfolio of travel brands, including tripadvisor, into a separate company under the newly-formed delaware corporation, expedia, inc., or expedia. on december 20, 2011, expedia completed the spin-off of tripadvisor as described in more detail in the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview spin-off . evolution of tripadvisor-branded websites since the initial launch of the u.s.-based tripadvisor.com website in november 2000, tripadvisor-branded websites have been added in the following locations: website target location language launch date tripadvisor.com.eg egypt arabic june 2011 tripadvisor.com.my malaysia english march 2011 tripadvisor.tw taiwan chinese (traditional) february 2011 tripadvisor.com.ar argentina spanish december 2010 tripadvisor.co.id indonesia bahasa november 2010 tripadvisor.gr greece greek october 2010 tripadvisor.ru russia russian october 2010 th.tripadvisor.com thailand thai august 2010 tripadvisor.co.kr south korea korean august 2010 tripadvisor.com.sg singapore english august 2010 pl.tripadvisor.com poland polish march 2010 no.tripadvisor.com norway norwegian march 2010 tripadvisor.com.au australia english march 2010 tripadvisor.com.tr turkey turkish december 2009 tripadvisor.com.mx mexico spanish december 2009 tripadvisor.dk denmark danish december 2009 tripadvisor.ca canada english august 2009 tripadvisor.se sweden swedish april 2009 tripadvisor.nl netherlands dutch april 2009 daodao.com china chinese (simplified) april 2009 tripadvisor.com.br brazil portuguese april 2009 tripadvisor.jp japan japanese october 2008 tripadvisor.in india english august 2008 tripadvisor.es spain spanish january 2006 tripadvisor.it italy italian january 2006 tripadvisor.de germany german january 2006 tripadvisor.fr france french january 2006 tripadvisor.co.uk united kingdom english november 2005 tripadvisor.ie ireland english november 2005 3 table of contents other travel brands and websites in addition to the flagship tripadvisor-branded websites, we have also acquired and launched numerous other travel brands, connected by the common characteristic of providing travelers with valuable planning resources across the travel sector. these brands have expanded our reach, product breadth and appeal to domestic and international advertisers. brands acquired include: website date acquired key focus whereivebeen.com july 2011 website and social platform with a detailed interactive world map that lets users share where they ve been, lived, and want to go. everytrail.com february 2011 mobile application and website for collecting and sharing geo-tagged user-generated travel content, such as walking tours and itineraries. holidaylettings.co.uk june 2010 a leading u.k.-based vacation rental site, featuring properties listed globally. kuxun.cn october 2009 travel metasearch engine operating in china. flipkey.com august 2008 a vacation rental website featuring a large collection of vacation rental guest reviews on vacation rental properties around the world. onetime.com june 2008 comparison shopping travel website that allows travel shoppers to conduct itinerary-based, multi-site searches for flights, hotels, cruises, vacations, and car rentals. virtualtourist.com june 2008 travel-oriented community website featuring user-contributed travel guides for locations worldwide. airfarewatchdog.com march 2008 provides up-to-date airline deals that have been researched and verified by a team of dedicated airfare experts. holidaywatchdog.com january 2008 u.k.-based website for traveler reviews on hotels and destinations focusing on the mediterranean. cruisecritic.com may 2007 a community of avid and first-time cruisers who enjoy the fun of planning, researching and sharing their passion for cruising. cruise critic offers objective cruise reviews written by expert travel writers and members. independenttraveler.com may 2007 a traveler exchange that features practical travel resources for a community of international travelers who enjoy the adventure of independent travel. seatguru.com march 2007 features aircraft seat maps, seat reviews, and a color-coded system to identify superior and substandard airline seats. bookingbuddy.com february 2007 travel shopping website that gives travelers easy access to airfare, hotel, car rental, cruise, vacation rental, and vacation deals, plus prices from selected travel sites. smartertravel.com february 2007 one of the largest online travel resources of independent expert advice for the budget-conscious traveler. the smartertravel editorial staff provides advice and analysis to help travelers find the best deals and get the most value from their trips. travelpod.com december 2006 pioneering travel blog website. travel-library.com september 2006 travel website with user-generated reviews. 4 table of contents brands developed internally and launched as of december 31, 2011 include: website date launched key focus sniqueaway.com september 2010 u.s.-based members-only flash sale website, providing exclusive limited time access to deals on top hotels at deep discounts. this members-only website offers limited-time discounts exclusively on traveler-endorsed properties that have received a minimum four out of five-star rating (or its equivalent for smaller properties) on tripadvisor.com. familyvacationcritic.com june 2009 reviews of family-friendly hotels, resorts, destinations and attractions, written by experienced family travel experts. industry we operate in the online advertising sector of the global travel industry. as a result, we are impacted by trends in the global travel industry, the online travel market and online advertising. global travel industry according to the 2011 phocuswright global online travel overview (april 2011), gross bookings in the worldwide travel market are expected to be greater than $900 billion in 2012. recent historical trends show that, each year, an increasing percentage of global travel spending has been conducted online through supplier websites and online travel agencies. we believe that this trend will continue as online penetration continues, as more consumers gain broadband access to the internet, as smartphone and other mobile computing devices continue to proliferate, and as travel grows along with an expanding middle class in certain developing countries like china and india. online travel market according to a 2011 international data corporation, or idc, study, the travel industry represents half of all global e-commerce transactions. on the other hand, only 16% of the approximately $39 billion spent on travel advertising is spent online. we believe that the internet will continue to become even more integral to the travel-planning process due to increasing worldwide online penetration, particularly given the capabilities that the internet provides travelers, including the ability to refine searches, compare destinations and view real-time pricing. online advertising according to the same 2011 idc study, the global online advertising market is growing and is projected to exceed $100 billion by 2013, as more and more advertisers continue to shift their spending from offline to online channels, mirroring the trend in consumer media consumption generally. for travel specifically, idc estimates that annual expenditures for global online travel advertising in 2012 will be close to $6 billion. given the size of the travel market, we believe that travel providers and travel related advertisers are, and will continue to be, motivated to devote significant resources to advertise their travel products and services. in addition, as more and more travel transactions are conducted online generally, we believe that an increasing amount of travel advertising spending will migrate from traditional offline advertising channels to online advertising opportunities. key strengths just over a decade ago, travel research and planning was largely conducted with the assistance and guidance of a personal travel agent or advice from friends and family. consumers had no single resource to access recent and comprehensive destination, lodging, restaurant and attraction feedback and information. we were founded 5 table of contents with the goal of providing an online resource based on user generated content to prospective travelers. by using the power of the internet to create transparency in the travel planning process with a comprehensive online resource for travel information, we have democratized the travel research and planning process. for any customer with access to the internet, we provide the ability and information to plan and have the perfect trip. in order to achieve our goals, we leverage our critical assets a robust community of users, rich user-generated content, technology and a commitment to continuous innovation and global reach, as follows: robust community of users . tripadvisor-branded sites offer benefits to our many constituents, the totality of which combine to create a vibrant community. by providing an interactive forum to share travel experiences, we allow the voice of our large, highly engaged community of travelers to influence travel purchase decision-making during the trip-planning phase. to ease planning, we enable consumers to research pricing and availability from third-party travel booking sites once they have identified the right hotel or destination for their travel needs. to facilitate better travel experiences for consumers and to create a feedback loop between the hospitality industry and individual travelers, we allow hospitality management representatives to respond to reviews of their properties on our website. we believe that the robust feedback loop created on tripadvisor-branded websites and the volume of reviews generated on tripadvisor-branded websites provides a sustainable advantage over competitors. we believe that we have the largest breadth of content in our markets, and that, because of this breadth, travelers gravitate to tripadvisor-branded websites to research their travel plans. after completing their trip, consumers can return to our websites to write reviews to give back to the community that helped them plan their trip. through this cycle, more content is generated, which drives community, traffic, loyalty and higher search engine rankings, all of which leads to further content creation. rich user-generated content. we believe that the best travel content comes from the wisdom and insight of a robust community of travelers. we leverage user-generated content to power travel planning by allowing members to create reviews and share opinions on hundreds of thousands of accommodations, destinations, attractions and restaurants. as evidenced by the growth of our business, this type of travel planning has been embraced by travelers. for example, in july 2006, we hosted more than 5 million user reviews and opinions with respect to approximately 220,000 hotels and attractions. currently, tripadvisor-branded websites provide consumers with over 60 million user reviews and opinions with respect to more than 550,000 hotels and accommodations and over 900,000 restaurants and attractions. on average, our users are currently adding more than 40 pieces of content every minute. to promote an enthusiastic reviewer community, we have launched several programs to recognize reviewer contributions, including site badges, helpful vote recognition, and other community-focused features, all of which highlight the active and helpful reviews and opinions available throughout the tripadvisor community. technology and innovation . we focus heavily on speed-to-market and product innovation in order to create a richer experience for travelers, and our team deploys weekly engineering releases with new products and features. some recent examples of this innovation include our instant personalization integration with facebook, which allows travelers to benefit from the experiences of friends by highlighting reviews and creating an interactive social map featuring destinations visited; creating review summarization tools to facilitate easier consumption of review content; and adding comprehensive flight metasearch and ratings in international points of sale. we are also investing heavily in the rapidly growing mobile channel, developing industry-leading mobile websites as well as tablet and smartphone applications that are currently available in 20 languages. our innovation also extends to content syndication, as we leverage our technology and content for the benefit of other websites. in addition, we expend significant efforts with respect to manual and electronic fraud detection in order to maintain the quality and authenticity of user reviews, and have clear posting guidelines for user content submission. 6 table of contents global reach . we maintain a global presence both through the reach of our global portfolio of 30 websites and through our in-market staffing in more than ten countries. during the year ended december 31, 2011, we added points-of-sale in taiwan, malaysia and egypt, bringing our total flagship tripadvisor branded websites to 30 countries in 21 languages, including in china under the brand daodao.com. we have over 40 million review translations, and we are committed to improving the in-country user experience and the local feel for all of our points-of-sale. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately 510 employees based outside of the united states. we believe that our core tripadvisor platform and many of our other brands are uniquely positioned to appeal to travelers globally, in that they strive to provide universally-relevant content and community. our strategy in expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand-building, and advertiser and other partner relationships. for example, we are able to aggregate a large base of consumer reviews, in a variety of languages, across our global core platform. we expect to continue leveraging this investment when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new product features and adding new business model offerings. investment in technology . we believe that our ability to continue to innovate by providing additional functionality to our main internet sites, while at the same time extending that functionality to various platforms such as mobile and tablets, will enable us to continue providing an industry-leading user experience. we have a strong culture of speed-to-market with our innovations. by innovating and releasing updates quickly, we believe that we can continue to grow our site visitors and over 60 million reviews and opinions, increase revenue and effectively compete with our competitors. new social sharing tools . we intend to continue to expand our integration with social media, including facebook, twitter and other social sharing platforms. we believe that this integration will be critical to continuing to grow and maintain engagement with our user base and increase our content. for example, by tapping into facebook rich social data, tripadvisor connects users to their friends and shares helpful content about where their friends have traveled and where they would like to visit in the future. while on the tripadvisor website, friends can discuss their travel plans and recommendations and build out personal profiles of places they have been. as of february, 2012, tripadvisor has offered more than 100 million users (according to facebook insights) a personalized and social travel planning experience that enables travelers to engage first with their own facebook friends reviews and opinions when planning their perfect trip on tripadvisor. investment in search engine marketing . one of the ways that we look to penetrate new markets is to leverage our expertise in search engine marketing, or sem. sem is a form of internet marketing that involves the promotion of websites by increasing their visibility in search engine results pages through the use of paid placement, contextual advertising, and paid inclusion. in certain markets we may bid on keywords to break even or at a loss in order to drive traffic, build our brand, gain more users to our product, collect content and scale more quickly. we think sem is an important channel because it delivers a significant number of brand impressions and can be a cost-effective method to get people to try our sites. international expansion . we are focused on expanding our footprint globally. we are continuing to expand in europe, asia and south america, especially in emerging markets, such as brazil, russia, india and china. during 2011, we added new points-of-sale in taiwan, malaysia and egypt, bringing our total tripadvisor-branded websites to 30 countries and 21 languages. these and the other newer sites in asia-pacific represent a longer-term opportunity for us. we believe that china represents a large international opportunity for our business. we currently have two lead product offerings in the chinese market daodao and kuxun both headquartered in beijing. we had 220 employees in china as of the end of 2011 and we continue to invest heavily and operate at a loss in the china market. 7 table of contents acquisitions . we have a history of successfully acquiring and integrating companies that expand our footprint either geographically or in market sectors that are complementary to our flagship properties. we intend to continue to seek acquisition targets. business model we derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. the remainder of our revenue is generated through a combination of subscription-based offerings, transactions conducted via our flash sale website, sniqueaway, and other revenue including content licensing. in the year ended december 31, 2011, we earned $500 million of revenue from click-based advertising, $86 million in revenue from display-based advertising and $51 million in revenue from subscription-based offerings, transaction revenue and other revenue. click-based advertising revenue . our largest source of revenue is click-based advertising, which includes our check rates feature as well as contextually-relevant branded and unbranded textlinks. our click-based advertising partners are predominantly online travel agencies and direct suppliers in the hotel, airline and cruise product categories. the check rates feature enables users to compare pricing and availability for a particular hotel across different on-line travel agents and hotel partners booking engines and thereby delivers a highly-targeted audience deep into the booking paths of their websites. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc, basis, with payments from advertisers based on the number of users who click on each type of link. advertisers who increase their cpc rates generally get improved positioning of, and thereby an increased number of clicks from, their click-based advertising on our websites. most of our click-based advertising contracts can be terminated by the advertisers at will or on short notice. display-based advertising revenue . we also earn revenue from a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites through which our advertising partners can promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner. while our display-based advertising clients include direct suppliers in the hotel, airline and cruise categories and online travel agencies, we have also broadened our advertiser base to include destination marketing organizations, casinos, resorts and attractions, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. we generally sell our display-based advertising on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. our display-based advertising products also include a number of custom-built products including the sponsorship of certain site features and functionality, as well as certain customized co-branded features. subscription-based, transaction and other revenue . we also offer advertising via a subscription model that is sold for a flat fee per time period. managed by our trip for business division, this advertising product, business listings, is currently offered to hotels, b&amp;bs and other specialty lodging properties and allows subscribers to list a website url, email address and phone number on tripadvisor-branded websites as well as to post special offers for travelers. our vacation rentals division allows individual vacation property owners or managers to pay a subscription fee to list properties on our holiday lettings and flipkey websites, as well as on select tripadvisor-branded websites. other sources of revenue include selling discounted hotel room nights and coupons on our flash sale website, sniqueaway, and licensing our content to third-party sites. strategic relationships expedia brands in recent years our commercial arrangements with expedia businesses, pursuant to which expedia has purchased click-based advertising from us, have primarily been on a revenue-share basis. for the year ended december 31, 2011, approximately $211 million, or 33%, of our total revenue was derived from expedia businesses. at the time of the spin-off from expedia, or the spin-off, new commercial arrangements with expedia-owned brands, including expedia.com and hotels.com were implemented. the new arrangements have 8 table of contents up to a one year term. for a discussion of these commercial arrangements, see note 9 related party transactions in the notes to our consolidated and combined financial statements. other click-based advertisers we have click-based advertising relationships with the vast majority of the leading online travel agencies globally as well as a variety of travel suppliers pursuant to which these companies purchase traveler leads from us, generally on a cpc basis. these relationships are strategically important to us and most can be terminated by the advertiser at will or on short notice. content-related partnerships we have a content licensing program utilized by over 350 partners across the world, including hotel chains, online travel agents, tourist boards, airlines and media sites. tripadvisor also distributes its content through self-service html widgets, which are used on the websites of hotels, restaurants, attractions and destination marketing organizations. these products, which are available at no cost in the tripadvisor management center, allow businesses and destinations to promote themselves by displaying their tripadvisor ratings, reviews and awards. tripadvisor widgets are presently found on more than 50,000 unique domains. partners benefit from our user-generated content, such as reviews, ratings, photos and traveler forums. in addition we power review collection for a growing number of partners such as accor hotels and easytobook.com, enabling them to proactively collect reviews from their own customers post-stay in their own branded environment. we have also developed mobile partnerships with carriers and mobile device manufacturers. syndication partners we also syndicate our click-based advertising to third-party websites. the largest such syndication relationship is with yahoo! travel guides, pursuant to which we provide check rates advertising on the yahoo! travel guides hotel pages for a term of more than one year. marketing and promotions our marketing programs are intended to build and maintain the value of our brands, promote consumer engagement and contributions, drive qualified clicks to our partners and strategically position our brands in the market. our long-term success depends on our continued ability to maintain and increase the overall number of consumers flowing through our brand in a cost-effective manner, as well as our ability to attract consumers who will share their own content from their trips. our marketing channels include sem and search engine optimization. we also utilize customer relationship marketing in which we send relevant and engaging traveler communications to our members via email. we have a robust global public relations program that yields placements on a constant basis in major print and online publications. we also use social media channels including facebook and twitter to deepen customer engagement. we syndicate our content so that other sites can feature tripadvisor branding and content. lastly, marketing and product development initiatives are closely tied. we are constantly creating helpful features and functionality so that our consumers can discover more relevant travel and review content that they want to talk about and share with their friends. operations and technology we have assembled a team of more than 150 highly skilled software engineers, computer scientists, network engineers, and systems engineers whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas, including a wide variety of open source operating systems, databases, languages, analytics, networking, scalable web architecture, operations, and warehousing technologies. we make significant investments in product and feature development, data management and personalization technologies, scalable infrastructures, networking, data warehousing, and search engine technologies. the tripadvisor branded websites are powered primarily using java programming language. 9 table of contents our systems infrastructure, web and database servers for tripadvisor branded websites are housed at two geographically separate facilities and have multiple communication links as well as continuous monitoring and engineering support. each facility is fully self-sufficient and operational with its own hardware, networking, software, and content, and is structured in an active/passive, fully redundant configuration. all software components, data, and content are replicated in multiple datacenters and development centers, as well as being backed up at offsite locations. our systems are monitored and protected though multiple layers of security. competition we face competition for users, advertisers and travel reviews. our primary competitors include large search engines, such as google, microsoft bing, yahoo! and baidu, and online travel agencies such as expedia and priceline, and their respective subsidiaries. we also compete with a wide range of other companies, including, among others, airbnb, inc., ctrip.com international, ltd., holidaycheck ag, homeaway.com, inc., kayak software corporation, qunar.com information technology co. ltd., travelzoo inc. and yelp, inc. as the market evolves for online travel content and the technology supporting it, including new platforms such as mobile and tablet computing devices, we anticipate that the existing competitive landscape will change and new competitors may emerge. competition for content and travel reviews we are the world largest global platform for travel-related reviews and opinions. while several regionally-focused competitors do exist, these competitors currently lack the global scale we enjoy, although they could achieve similar scale over time. we also face competition in the travel review space from online travel agencies, such as expedia and priceline and their respective subsidiaries, which solicit reviews from travelers who book travel on their websites. moreover, networks with significant installed user bases such as google (for example, via google places and google hotel finder) have begun to, and other networks or platforms, like facebook, could choose to, compete more directly with us by attracting and accumulating user-generated travel reviews and opinions or may pursue the acquisition of travel-related content directly from consumers. competition for users in the competition to attract users, we rely on our ability to acquire traffic through offline brand recognition and brand-direct efforts such as email and online search, whether unpaid or paid. unpaid search is sometimes referred to as search engine optimization, or seo, which is the practice of developing websites with relevant and current content that rank well in organic, or unpaid, search engine results. seo can be affected by a number of factors including competitive site content, changes to our website architecture and page designs, changes to search engine ranking algorithms, or changes to display ordering in search engine results such as preferred placement for internal products offered by search engines. sem is a form of internet marketing that involves the promotion of websites by increasing their visibility in search engine results pages through the use of paid placement, contextual advertising, and paid inclusion. sem is a competitive marketplace with competitors continually updating their traffic acquisition strategies and economic models across a large number of keywords and markets. competition for advertisers we compete with search engines, such as google, bing, and yahoo!, online media companies and ad networks, as well as offline advertising sources, such as television and print media, for travel supplier, online travel agency and other travel-related advertising budgets. these competitors have large client bases and significantly greater resources than we have and competition from these parties could cause us to lose advertising customers or shares of advertising expenditures. however, we believe that our large audience of highly-qualified, highly-engaged users makes tripadvisor a critical strategic buy for online travel agents and hotel partners. 10 table of contents intellectual property our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology and trade secrets, is an important component of our business. we rely on our intellectual property rights in our content, proprietary technology, software code, ratings indexes, databases of reviews and forum content, images, videos, graphics and brands. we have acquired some of our intellectual property rights through licenses and content agreements with third parties. these licenses and agreements may place restrictions on our use of the intellectual property. we protect our intellectual property by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, as well as on international, national, state and common law rights. in addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. we protect our brands by pursuing the trademark registration of our core brands, such as tripadvisor and the owl logo, maintaining our trademark portfolio, securing contractual trademark rights protection when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. we also register copyrights and domain names as deemed appropriate. additionally, we protect our trademarks, domain names and copyrights with an enforcement program and the use of intellectual property licenses. we have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future inventions, as circumstances may warrant. however, many patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us. regulation we are subject to a number of united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet, many of which are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. these may involve user privacy, libel, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation and online payment services. in particular, we are subject to united states federal and state and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. in addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations is often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate. there are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the united states congress, various state legislative bodies, and foreign governments concerning data protection which could affect us. for example, a revision to the 1995 european union data protection directive is currently being considered by legislative bodies that may include more stringent operational requirements for data processors and significant penalties for non-compliance. in addition, we provide advertising data and information and conduct marketing activities that are subject to united states federal and state consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices, domestically and internationally. the united states and european union have begun to adopt legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, and liability for third-party activities. united states federal, state and foreign governments are also considering alternative legislative and regulatory proposals that would increase regulation on internet advertising. it is impossible to predict whether new taxes or regulations will be imposed on our services, and whether or how we might be affected. increased regulation of the internet could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operational results. 11 table of contents segment and geographic areas we have one reportable segment. segment and geographical information is contained in note 12 segment information in the notes to our consolidated and combined financial statements. employees as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately 1,250 employees. of these employees, approximately 740 were based in the united states. none of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. we believe that relations with our employees are good. seasonality expenditures by travel advertisers tend to be seasonal. traditionally, our strongest quarter has been the third quarter, which is a key travel research period, with the weakest quarter historically being the fourth quarter. however, adverse economic conditions or continued growth of our international operations with differing holiday peaks may influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. additional information company website and public filings we maintain a corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the sec. we make available, free of charge through the investor relations section of our website, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a) or section 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. code of ethics we post our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers, senior financial officers and directors, on our corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. our code of business conduct and ethics complies with item 406 of sec regulation s-k and the rules of nasdaq. we intend to disclose any changes to the code that affect the provisions required by item 406 of regulation s-k, and any waivers of the code of ethics for our executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, on our corporate website. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock involves risks. you should consider carefully the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. please refer to the section entitled cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements on page 1 of this annual report on form 10-k in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. if we are unable to continue to increase visitors to our websites and to cost-effectively convert these visitors into repeat users or contributors, our advertising revenue could decline. the primary asset that we use to attract traffic to our websites and convert these visitors into repeat users is the content created by users of our websites, particularly such content volume, unique nature and organization. our success in attracting users depends, in part, upon our continued ability to collect, create, organize and distribute high-quality, commercially valuable content in a cost-effective manner at a scale that connects consumers with content that meets their specific interests and enables them to share and interact with the content and supporting communities. there can be no assurances that we will continue to receive content in a cost-effective manner or in a manner that timely meets rapidly changing consumer demand, if at all. any failure to obtain such content could adversely affect user experiences and reduce traffic driven to our websites, which would make our websites less attractive to advertisers. any change in the cost structure pursuant to which we obtain our content currently, or in travelers relative appreciation of user-based versus expert content, could negatively impact our business and financial performance. we are subject to periodic changes in search engine algorithms and methodologies and changes in search query trends and display results. our failure to successfully manage our seo strategy could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic. actions beyond our control, such as changes to algorithms by search engine providers such as google, bing or baidu for competitive or other purposes could also negatively impact the ranking of our websites in search engine results. even if we succeed in driving traffic to our websites, neither we nor our advertisers or partners may be able to monetize this traffic or otherwise retain consumers. our failure to do so could result in decreased users and related advertising revenue. any or all of the above results would adversely affect our business and financial performance. our businesses could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation. we rely heavily on internet search engines such as google, including through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites. we obtain a significant amount of traffic via search engines and, therefore, utilize techniques such as seo and sem to improve our placement in relevant search queries. search engines, including google, frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. moreover, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our websites to place lower in search query results. if a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects our paid or unpaid search ranking, or if competitive dynamics impact the effectiveness of seo or sem in a negative manner, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected, potentially to a material extent. in addition, to the extent that google (including google places and google hotel finder, and a recently launched comparison travel tool), bing (including bing travel), or other leading search or meta-search engines that have a significant presence in our key markets, disintermediate online travel agencies or travel content 13 table of contents providers by offering comprehensive travel planning or shopping capabilities, or refer those leads to suppliers directly, or to other favored partners, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. for example, during 2011, google completed its acquisition of flight search technology company ita software and separately made changes to its hotel search results, including both expanding and promoting the use of google places. to the extent these actions have a negative effect on our search traffic, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our businesses and financial performance. our businesses and financial performance are affected by the health of the worldwide travel industry. travel expenditures are sensitive to personal and business discretionary spending levels and tend to decline or grow more slowly during economic downturns. decreased travel expenditures could reduce the demand for our services, thereby causing a reduction in revenue. most recently, beginning in 2008, domestic and global economic conditions deteriorated rapidly, resulting in increased unemployment and a reduction in available budgets for both business and leisure travelers, which slowed spending on the services that we provide. further weakness in the global economy could create uncertainty for travelers and suppliers, and result in reduced spending by advertisers. these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. we derive substantially all of our revenue from advertising and any significant reduction in spending by advertisers could harm our business. most of our advertisers can generally terminate their contracts with us at any time or on very short notice. advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in such advertising does not generate sales leads, customers, bookings, or revenue and profit on a cost-effective basis, or if we do not deliver advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner. if we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our advertisers, they will likely stop placing ads on our websites, which would harm our revenues and business. in addition, we cannot guarantee that our current advertisers will fulfill their obligations under existing contracts, continue to advertise beyond the terms of existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts with us. expenditures by advertisers also tend to be cyclical, subject to variation based on budgetary constraints, project cancellation or delay, and to reflect overall economic conditions and buying patterns. if we are unable to generate advertising revenue due to factors outside of our control, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected. click-based advertising accounts for the majority of our advertising revenue. if new, more effective advertising models were to emerge, there can be no assurance that we will have the ability to offer these models, or offer them in an effective manner. to the extent new technology platforms, such as mobile and tablet computing, begin to take market share from established platforms, there can be no assurance that our existing advertising models will operate successfully on these new platforms, or work as effectively as on the desktop computer platform. we rely on a relatively small number of significant advertisers and any reduction in spending by or loss of those advertisers could seriously harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of significant advertisers. if any of our significant advertisers were to cease or to significantly curtail advertising on our websites, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenue over a relatively short period of time. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2011, expedia was our most significant advertising customer in terms of revenue, and during 2012 and we expect expedia to lower its cpc pricing by 10% to 15% from 2011 levels, which we expect will have the effect of reducing expedia aggregate marketing spend with us, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on 14 table of contents our business, financial condition and results of operation. in addition, we entered into a one-year agreement with expedia in connection with the spin-off. if such contract is not subsequently renewed or is renewed on terms less favorable to us, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, our cpc pricing for click-based advertising depends, in part, on competition between advertisers, with those paying higher cpcs generally getting better advertising placement and more leads from us. if our large advertisers become less competitive with each other, merge with each other, focus more on per click profit than on traffic volume, or are able to reduce cpcs, this would have an adverse impact on our cpcs which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends upon the acceptance, and successful measurement, of online advertising as an alternative to offline advertising. we believe that a significant discrepancy exists between the percentage of the advertising market allocated to online advertising and the percentage of consumer time spent on online media consumption as opposed to offline advertising and media consumption. long-term growth of our business will depend heavily on this distinction between online and offline advertising narrowing or being eliminated, which may not happen in a manner or to the extent that we currently expect. we compete with traditional media for advertising dollars, in addition to websites with higher levels of traffic. if online advertising ceases to be an acceptable alternative to offline advertising, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. because the online marketing industry is relatively new and rapidly evolving, it uses different methods than traditional media to gauge its effectiveness. some of our potential customers have little or no experience using the internet for advertising and marketing purposes and have allocated only limited portions of their advertising and marketing budgets to the internet. the adoption of internet advertising, particularly by those entities that have historically relied upon traditional media for advertising, requires the acceptance of a new way of conducting business, exchanging information and evaluating new advertising and marketing technologies and services. in particular, we are dependent on our clients adoption of new metrics to measure the success of online marketing campaigns. we may also experience resistance from traditional advertising agencies who may be advising our clients. any lack of growth in the market for various online advertising models could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if advertisers materially change their transaction attribution models or their return on investment calculations and/or increase their return on investment targets with respect to online advertising in general, or tripadvisor traffic in particular, they might reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our advertising products, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may experience difficulty in achieving meaningful consumer adoption of, and creating a viable advertising market via, our applications for mobile and tablet computing devices, which could harm our business. in general, our content was originally designed for users accessing the internet on a desktop or laptop computer. the number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers has increased substantially in the last few years. although we have developed services and applications to address the smaller screens, and less convenient typing capabilities of these devices, the efficacy of the mobile advertising market is still developing. moreover, if our mobile and tablet computing services prove to be less effective for users seeking to research travel through these devices or less economically attractive for advertisers and the wireless and mobile segment of internet traffic grows at the expense of traditional computer internet access, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining traffic and, in turn, advertisers, on these platforms. additionally, as new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the challenges that we may encounter in developing versions of our offerings for use on these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of our services on 15 table of contents such devices. to the extent that revenue generated from advertising placed on mobile and tablet computing devices becomes more important to our business and we fail to adequately evolve and address this market, our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted. we rely on the value of our brand and consumer trust in our brand, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing brand awareness are increasing. we invest in our brand in order to retain and expand our customer base and expect these investments to continue, or even increase, as a result of a variety of factors, including increased spending from competitors, the increasing costs of supporting multiple brands, expansion into geographies and products where our brands are less well known, inflation in media pricing, including sem keywords, and the continued emergence and relative traffic share growth of search engines and metasearch engines as destination sites for travelers. we expect to continue to invest in, and devote resources to, advertising and marketing, as well as other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands. such efforts may not maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective, or as efficient as they have been historically. if we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands or to generate demand in a cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. we face competition from companies and websites that collect travel-related content, which could divert traffic from our websites causing financial harm to us. we may face increased competition to the extent that competitors pursue a strategy to maximize the creation of commercially valuable online content at significant scale. for example, if any of the large search engines or online travel agencies chose to compete more directly with us in the travel review space, we may face loss of business or other adverse financial consequences since those entities generally possess significantly greater consumer bases, financial resources, distribution channels and patent portfolios. for example, google places, with its aggregated reviews and local recommendations, competes with us. further, google access to more comprehensive data regarding user search queries through its search algorithms gives it a significant competitive advantage over other companies in the industry, including us. if this data is used competitively by google, sold to online publishers or given away for free, our business may face increased competition from companies, including google, with substantially greater resources, brand recognition and established market presence. we could also face competition from online travel agents that may be in a position to accumulate and develop a comprehensive offering of travel-related reviews and resources. the barriers to entry for these companies may be limited given their access to travel-related information and relationships with consumers. if online travel agents were to more aggressively pursue our market, the number of visitors to our websites may be negatively affected, which would, in turn, negatively impact our community and ability to collect content and also to reduce our ability to attract advertisers. online travel agents are also a meaningful source of revenue for us, so if in competing with us, these companies decide to reduce or eliminate their business with us, and it could significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition. any of these competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that attract users. many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources compared to us as well as large client bases. in addition, we compete with newspapers, magazines and other traditional media companies that provide offline and online advertising opportunities. we expect to face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the travel advertising market. competition could result in higher traffic acquisition costs, reduced margins on our advertising services, loss of market share, reduced customer traffic to our websites and reduced advertising by travel companies on our websites. for example, google (through its launch of google hotel finder, acquisition of ita software, evolution and expansion of google places and preferred top placement of places results in google organic travel search results) and microsoft bing (through its launch of bing travel) have each taken steps to appeal more 16 table of contents directly to travel customers, which could lead to diversion of customer traffic to their own websites or those of a favored partner, or undermine our ability to obtain prominent placement in paid or unpaid search results at a reasonable cost, or at all. competition in our industry may result in pricing pressure, loss of market share or decreased member engagement, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. as a distributor and host of internet content, we face potential liability and expense for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we distribute or create, or that are accessible via our websites. as a distributor and host of original content and user-generated content, we face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including defamation, libel, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories based on the nature, creation or distribution of this information, and under various laws, including the lanham act, the copyright act, the federal trade commission act, the digital millennium copyright act, section 230 of the communications decency act, and the european union e-commerce directive. we may also be exposed to similar liability in connection with content that users post to our websites through forums, blogs, comments, and other social media features. in addition, it is possible that visitors to our websites could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance upon information provided via our websites. these claims, whether brought in the united states or abroad, could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. if we become subject to these or similar claims and are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. there is no guarantee that we will avoid future liability and potential expenses for legal claims based on the content available on our websites. should the content distributed through our websites violate the rights of others or otherwise give rise to claims against us, we could be subject to substantial liability, which could have a negative impact on our business and financial performance. loss of trust in our brand would harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends on attracting a large number of users to our websites, and retaining such users, and providing leads and clicks to advertisers. in order to attract and retain users, we must remain a valuable source of travel advice. because of our reliance on user-generated content, we must continually manage and monitor our content and detect incorrect or fraudulent information. for example, hotels, hotel competitors, or others, in an attempt to improperly influence a hotel reviews and rankings, sometimes write and submit fraudulent or otherwise misleading reviews. if a significant amount of inaccurate or fraudulent information were not detected and removed by us in a timely manner, or if a significant amount of information was deemed by users or the media to be inaccurate or fraudulent, our brand, business and reputation could be harmed. any damage to our reputation could harm our ability to attract and retain users, employees and advertisers, which would adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, significant adverse news reports or media, industry or consumer coverage of us would reflect poorly on our brands and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. we are dependent upon the quality of traffic in our network to provide value to online advertisers, and any failure in our quality control could have a material adverse effect on the value of our websites to our advertisers and adversely affect our revenue. we use technology and processes to monitor the quality of, and to identify any anomalous metrics associated with, the internet traffic that we deliver to online advertisers. these metrics may be indicative of low quality clicks such as non-human processes, including robots, spiders or other software; the mechanical automation of clicking; and other types of invalid clicks or click fraud. even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low-quality traffic, or traffic that online advertisers deem to be invalid, will be delivered to such online advertisers. as a result, we may be required to credit amounts owed to us by our advertisers. furthermore, low-quality or invalid traffic may be detrimental to our relationships with advertisers, and could adversely affect our advertising pricing and revenue. 17 table of contents new technologies could block our ads, which would harm our business. technologies have been developed that can block the display of online ads and that provide tools to users to opt out of some web-based advertising products. we derive most of our revenues from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of ads on web pages for our users. as a result, these technologies and tools could adversely affect our business and financial performance. unfavorable media coverage could negatively affect our business. we receive significant media coverage in our various geographic markets. unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our privacy practices, product changes, the accuracy of user-generated content, product quality, litigation or regulatory activity could adversely affect our reputation with our site users and our advertisers. such negative publicity also could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement, and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. if we do not continue to innovate and provide tools and services that are useful to travelers, we may not remain competitive, and our business and financial performance could suffer. our success depends in part on continued innovation to provide features and services that make our websites and mobile and tablet computing applications useful for travelers. our competitors are continually developing innovations in online travel-related services and features. if we are unable to provide quality features and services that travelers want to use, then travelers may become dissatisfied and use a competitor offerings. if we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services, we may be unable to attract additional users, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our culture emphasizes rapid innovation and prioritizes user engagement over short-term financial results. we have a culture that encourages employees to quickly develop and release new and improved products, which may at times result in unintended consequences or decisions that are poorly received by users or advertisers. our culture also prioritizes user engagement, or website stickiness, over short-term financial results. we have taken actions in the past and may continue to make product decisions going forward that have the effect of reducing our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions benefit the aggregate user experience and will thereby improve our financial performance over the long-term. these decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with users and advertisers, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. we may not be able to successfully expand into the vacation rental marketplace. we offer vacation rental services through our u.s.-based flipkey and u.k.-based holidaylettings businesses, as well through various partnerships. the online vacation rental market is relatively new and is rapidly evolving, and limited data is currently available regarding the market and industry. our vacation rental services may not succeed, and, even if successful, our revenues may not increase. these new services could also increase our operating costs. furthermore, a larger competitor exists in the vacation rental space, with significantly more users and listed properties, and new competitors with significant financial resources are continually emerging. if property owners and managers do not perceive the benefits of marketing their properties online or marketing their properties with several intermediaries, then the market for our services may not develop as expected, or it may develop more slowly than expected, either of which would slow the growth of our business and revenues. growth in use of tripadvisor through our mobile products as a substitute for use on personal computers may negatively affect our revenue and financial results. approximately 13 million downloads of our mobile applications have occurred as of december 31, 2011 and we estimate an average of 16 million monthly unique users on mobile devices, up from 2 million downloads 18 table of contents and 4 million monthly unique users at the end of 2010. we anticipate that the rate of growth in mobile users will continue to exceed the growth rate of our overall users for the foreseeable future, in part due to our focus on developing mobile products to encourage mobile usage of tripadvisor. although the substantial majority of our mobile users also access and engage with our websites on personal computers where we display advertising, our users could decide to increasingly access our products primarily through mobile devices. we do not currently display graphic advertising on smartphones and our mobile monetizing strategies are still developing. if users continue to increasingly access our mobile products as a substitute for access through personal computers, and if we are unable to successfully improve monetization strategies for our mobile users, our revenue and financial results may be negatively affected. we may be subject to claims that we violated intellectual property rights of others, which claims are extremely costly to defend and could require us to pay significant damages and limit our ability to operate. companies in the internet and technology industries, and other patent and trademark holders seeking to profit from royalties in connection with grants of licenses, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. we have received in the past, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties intellectual property rights. there may be intellectual property rights held by others, including issued or pending patents and trademarks, which cover significant aspects of our technologies or content. any intellectual property claim against us, regardless of merit, could be time consuming and expensive to settle or litigate and could divert management attention and other resources. these claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology or content found to be in violation of another party rights. we might be required or may opt to seek a license for rights to intellectual property held by others, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, or content, which could require significant effort and expense and make us less competitive in the relevant market. any of these results could harm our business and financial performance. we may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. in connection with the spin-off, we entered into a term loan in the amount of $400 million, as well as a revolving credit facility of $200 million. these arrangements may limit our ability to secure significant additional financing in the future on favorable terms. our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, we may be unable to secure additional financing or financing on favorable terms, or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time (if any). furthermore, if financing is not available when needed or is not available on favorable terms, we may be unable to issue or repurchase equity, develop new or enhanced existing services, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. we have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. the face value of our term loan totals $400 million. risks relating to our indebtedness include: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 19 table of contents requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; making it more difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; possibly placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms that we finds acceptable; and exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our outstanding debt is expected to be subject to variable rates of interest. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our term loan and revolving credit facility will allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. the agreements that govern our credit facility contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants. the failure to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. in connection with the spin-off, we entered into a new credit agreement providing for a revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $200 million and a term of five years, as well as a five-year, $400 million term loan to tripadvisor holdings, llc. the agreements that govern the term loan and revolving credit facility contain various covenants, including those that limit our ability to, among other things: incur indebtedness; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; enter into certain asset sale transactions, including partial or full spin-off transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to optimally operate our business. in addition, our term loan and revolving credit facility require that we meet certain financial tests, including an interest coverage test and a leverage ratio test. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our term loan credit facility may result in an event of default under the agreements governing such facilities. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the debt incurred under thereunder. in addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds (including periodic rollovers of existing borrowings). we may be unable to make the changes necessary to operate effectively as an independent public entity. as an independent entity, expedia has no obligation to provide financial, operational or organizational assistance to us, other than (i) limited services pursuant to the transition services agreement between expedia and 20 table of contents us and (ii) limited obligations to cooperate and exchange information in connection with certain tax matters pursuant to the tax sharing agreement between expedia and us. among other things, as an independent entity, we are subject to, and responsible for, regulatory compliance, including periodic public filings with the sec and compliance with securities exchange listing requirements, as well as generally applicable tax and accounting rules. without assistance from expedia, we may not be able to implement the changes necessary to operate as an independent public entity successfully. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may develop between the management and directors of expedia, on the one hand, and our management and directors, on the other hand. some members of the management and some directors of expedia and tripadvisor own both expedia capital stock and our capital stock. this ownership overlap could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when expedia and our directors and executive officers face decisions that could have different implications for expedia and us. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between expedia and us regarding terms of the agreements governing the spin-off and our relationship with expedia following the spin-off, including the separation agreement, the employee matters agreement, the tax sharing agreement, the transition services agreement between us and expedia or any commercial agreements between us and expedia. potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we enter into commercial arrangements with expedia in the future. in addition, mr. diller serves as the chairman of our board of directors and as our senior executive, while retaining his role as chairman and senior executive of expedia; mr. khosrowshahi serves as a director of tripadvisor while retaining his role as president, chief executive officer and director of expedia; and mr. kaufman serves a director of tripadvisor while retaining his role as vice chairman and director of expedia. the fact that messrs. diller, khosrowshahi and kaufman hold positions with both expedia and us could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for messrs. diller, khosrowshahi and kaufman when they face decisions that may affect both us and expedia. messrs. diller, khosrowshahi and kaufman may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of their time between us and expedia. involvement with entities other than us or expedia could also create potential conflicts; for example, messrs. diller and kaufman hold significant positions at iac. in connection with its 2005 spin-off from iac, expedia adopted corporate opportunity provisions in its amended and restated certificate of incorporation that generally provide that no officer or director of expedia who is also an officer or director of iac will be liable to expedia or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to iac instead of expedia, or does not communicate information to expedia regarding a corporate opportunity that the officer or director has directed to iac. such provisions remain in effect following the spin-off. we have a similar provision in our certificate of incorporation with respect to our officers or directors who are also officers or directors of expedia (or iac). in addition, expedia amended and restated certificate of incorporation has been reciprocally and similarly amended such that expedia renounces any interest or expectancy in certain corporate opportunities, which generally have the effect that no officer or director of expedia who is also an officer or director of tripadvisor will be liable to expedia or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to us instead of expedia, or does not communicate information to expedia regarding a corporate opportunity that the officer or director has directed to us. the corporate opportunity provisions may have the effect of exacerbating the risk of conflicts of interest between expedia and us because the provisions effectively shield an overlapping director/executive officer from liability for breach of fiduciary duty in the event that such director or officer chooses to direct a corporate opportunity to us instead of to expedia or vice versa. 21 table of contents if the spin-off, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to significant tax liabilities. as a condition to the completion of the spin-off, expedia obtained a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or the irs, along with an opinion of counsel, satisfactory to the expedia board of directors regarding the qualification of the spin-off, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a) (1) (d) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. the irs private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel were based on, among other things, certain facts, assumptions as well as the accuracy of certain representations, statements and undertakings that expedia and we made to the irs and to counsel. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if we or expedia breach any of the covenants, the irs private letter ruling and the opinions of counsel may be invalid. moreover, the irs private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the spin-off qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. notwithstanding the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel, the irs could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the irs private letter ruling or on which the opinion of counsel was based is false or has been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel that are not covered by any irs ruling. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. we may not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances due to our tax sharing agreement with expedia. our ability to engage in significant stock transactions could be limited or restricted after the spin-off in order to preserve the tax free nature of the spin-off to expedia. u.s. federal income tax law provides that the spin-off would be taxable to expedia, but not to its stockholders, if such spin-off is part of a plan or series of related transactions pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in us or expedia. acquisitions that occur during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of the spin-off are presumed to occur pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions, unless it is established that the acquisition is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions that includes the spin-off. u.s. treasury regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether an acquisition and a spin-off are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the treasury regulations. in addition, the treasury regulations provide several safe harbors for acquisitions that are not considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions. these rules will limit our ability during the two-year period following the spin-off to enter into certain transactions that might be advantageous to us and our stockholders, particularly issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, repurchasing equity securities, and, under certain limited circumstances, acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities or agreeing to be acquired. under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take such actions that could cause the spin-off to fail to qualify as a tax free transaction prior to january 21, 2014. 22 table of contents in addition, a sale or disposition of the stock of expedia or our stock by certain persons that own 5% or more of any class of our stock could disqualify the tax free status of the spin-off. liberty interactive corporation and its affiliates own stock of tripadvisor representing 62.4% by vote and 30.5% beneficial ownership. accordingly, in evaluating our ability to engage in certain transactions involving our equity securities, it is possible that expedia and we will need to take into account the activities of liberty interactive corporation and its affiliates. we rely on information technology to operate our business and maintain competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our businesses. we depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems. as our operations grow in size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining or improving the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to competitive service and product offerings. the emergence of alternative platforms such as mobile and tablet computing devices and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology. new developments in other areas, such as cloud computing, could also make it easier for competition to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. in addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. our international operations involve additional risks and our exposure to these risks will increase as our business expands globally. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states and intend to continue to expand our international operations. to achieve widespread acceptance in new countries and markets, we must continue to tailor our services and business model to the unique circumstances of such countries and markets, which can be difficult, costly and divert management and personnel resources. failure to adapt practices and models effectively to each country into which we expand could slow our international growth. we have businesses operating in china, which create particular risks and uncertainties relating to the laws in china. we operate in china under the brands daodao.com and kuxun.cn. the success of these businesses, and of any future investments in china, is subject to risks and uncertainties regarding the application, development and interpretation of china laws and regulations. the laws and regulations of china restrict foreign investment in areas including air-ticketing and travel agency services, internet content provision, mobile communication and related businesses. although we have established effective control of our chinese businesses through a series of agreements, future developments in the interpretation or enforcement of chinese laws and regulations or a dispute relating to these agreements could restrict our ability to operate or restructure these businesses or to engage in strategic transactions. other risks faced by us as a result of our international operations, including our operations in china, include: political instability; threatened or actual acts of terrorism; regulatory requirements, including the foreign corrupt practices act and newly enacted u.k. bribery act, data privacy requirements, labor laws and anti-competition regulations; ability to comply with additional u.s. laws applicable to u.s. companies operating internationally as well as local laws and regulations; 23 table of contents diminished ability to legally enforce contractual rights; increased risk and limits on enforceability of intellectual property rights; possible preferences by local populations for local providers; restrictions on, or adverse consequences related to, the withdrawal of non-u.s. investment and earnings; currency exchange restrictions, particularly conversion of the u.s. dollar into chinese renminbi; restrictions on repatriation of cash as well as restrictions on investments in operations in certain countries; exchange rate fluctuations and the risks and costs inherent in hedging such exposures; financial risk arising from transactions in multiple currencies; slower adoption of the internet as an advertising, broadcast and commerce medium in certain of those markets as compared to the united states; difficulties in managing staffing and operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences; and uncertainty regarding liability for services, content and intellectual property rights, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of precedent. we depend on our key personnel. our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior corporate management. in particular, the contributions of barry diller, our chairman and senior executive, and stephen kaufer, our president, chief executive officer and a director, are critical to our overall management. our future success will depend on the performance of our senior management and key employees. we cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of these key personnel or any other member of our senior management or key employees, the loss of whom could seriously harm our business. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. in addition, competition remains intense for well-qualified employees in certain aspects of our business, including software engineers, developers, product management and development personnel, and other technology professionals. our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. if we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining or motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business or financial performance. our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business, including those relating to the internet and online commerce, internet advertising, consumer protection and privacy. unfavorable changes could decrease demand for products and services, limit marketing methods and capabilities, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. for example, there is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce that may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of products and services. our current business partner arrangements with third parties, including facebook, could be negatively impacted to the extent that more restrictive privacy laws or regulations are enacted, particularly in the united states or european 24 table of contents union. in addition, enforcement authorities in the united states continue to rely on their authority under existing consumer protection laws to take action against companies relating to data privacy and security practices. the growth and development of online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws and more aggressive enforcement efforts, which may impose additional burdens on online businesses generally. mr. diller currently is a controlling shareholder. if mr. diller ceases to be a controlling shareholder, liberty interactive corporation may effectively be a controlling shareholder. mr. diller effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of our stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of our common stock of 25% of the members of our board of directors and matters as to which delaware law requires separate class votes). upon mr. diller ceasing to serve in his capacity as chairman or his becoming disabled, liberty interactive corporation may effectively control the voting power of our capital stock through its ownership of our common shares. our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors that could have a material impact on our financial results and could increase the volatility of those results. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. in the event we incur net income in certain jurisdictions but incur losses in other jurisdictions, we generally cannot offset the income from one jurisdiction with the loss from another, which could increase our effective tax rate. furthermore, significant judgment is required to calculate our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. by virtue of our previously filed separate company and consolidated income tax returns with expedia we are routinely under audit by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. additionally, we earn an increasing portion of our income, and accumulate a greater portion of cash flow, in foreign jurisdictions. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates and incremental cash tax payments. in addition, there have been proposals to amend u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact the manner in which u.s. companies are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation will pass, if enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our u.s. tax expense and cash flows. we cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected from copying or use by others, including potential competitors. our websites rely on content, brands and technology, much of which is proprietary. we protect our proprietary content, brands and technology by relying on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents and confidentiality agreements. in connection with our license agreements with third parties, we seek to control access to, and the use and distribution of, proprietary technology, content and brands. even with these precautions, it may be possible for another party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, content or brands without authorization or to develop similar technology, content or brands independently. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our services are made available, and policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology, content and brands is difficult and expensive. therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology, content and brands adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our business or ability to compete. we cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or infringement of proprietary technology, content or brands. any misappropriation or violation of our rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. furthermore, we may need to go to court or 25 table of contents other tribunals to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. these proceedings might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. our failure to protect our intellectual property in a cost-effective or effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to protect our technology, content and brands. we currently license from third parties, and from expedia, some of the technologies, content and brands incorporated into our websites. as we continue to introduce new services that incorporate new technologies, content and brands, we may be required to license additional technology, content or brands. we cannot be sure that such technology, content and brand licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. we are subject to foreign exchange risk. we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the united states. as a result, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates, particularly those related to the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, australian dollar, singapore dollar and chinese renminbi. these exposures include, but are not limited to re-measurement gains and losses from changes in the value of foreign denominated assets and liabilities; translation gains and losses on foreign subsidiary financial results that are translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation; and planning risk related to changes in exchange rates between the time we prepare our annual and quarterly forecasts and when actual results occur. depending on the size of the exposures and the relative movements of exchange rates, if we were to choose not to hedge or were to fail to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial statements and financial condition. as seen in some recent periods, in the event of severe volatility in exchange rates the impact of these exposures can increase, and the impact on results of operations can be more pronounced. in addition, the current environment and the increasingly global nature of our business have made hedging these exposures both more complex and costly. historically, we have not hedged translation risks as cash flows from its international operations were generally reinvested locally; therefore we could incur unanticipated translation gains and losses. system interruption and the lack of redundancy in some of our internal information systems may harm our business. we rely on computer systems to deliver content and services. we have experienced and may in the future experience system interruptions that make some or all of these systems unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing content and services to users and third parties. significant interruptions, outages or delays in internal systems, or systems of third parties that we rely upon including multiple co-location providers for data centers and network access, or deterioration in the performance of any such systems, would impair our ability to process transactions or display content and decrease the quality of the services we offer to travelers and users. these interruptions could include security intrusions and attacks on our systems for fraud or service interruption (called denial of service or bot attacks). if we were to experience frequent or persistent system failures, our business, reputations and brand could be harmed. in addition, we lack backup systems or contingency plans for certain critical aspects of our operations or business processes. many other systems are not fully redundant and their disaster recovery or business continuity planning may not be sufficient. fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of god, computer viruses, electronic intrusion attempts from both external and internal sources and similar events or disruptions may damage or impact or interrupt computer or communications systems or business processes at any time. although we have put measures in place to protect certain portions of our facilities and assets, any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing content and services to users, travelers and/or third parties for a significant 26 table of contents period of time. remediation may be costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such costs. moreover, the costs of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved stability and redundancy may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. we process, store and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to risks stemming from possible failure to comply with governmental regulation and other legal obligations and potential liability related to security breaches. we may acquire personal or confidential information from users of our websites and mobile applications. there are numerous laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other consumer data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. we strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. it is possible, however, that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other user data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements against the relevant company by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers and members to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. the regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. the u.s. congress and federal agencies, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, are reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection and use of information concerning consumer behavior on the internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain targeted advertising practices. u.s. courts are also considering the applicability of existing federal and state statutes, including computer trespass and wiretapping laws, to the collection and exchange of information online. in addition, the european union is in the process of proposing reforms to its existing data protection legal framework, which may result in a greater compliance burden for companies, including us, with users in europe and increased costs of compliance. we have collaborations with other online service providers that involve exchanges of user information, and these practices may attract increased regulatory scrutiny in the united states and europe in the future. potential security breaches to our systems, whether resulting from internal or external sources, could significantly harm our business. there can be no guarantee that our existing security measures will prevent all possible security breaches or attacks. a party, whether internal or external, that is able to circumvent our security systems could misappropriate user information or proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. in the past, we have experienced denial-of-service type attacks on our systems that have made portions of our websites unavailable for short periods of time as well as unauthorized access of our systems and data. we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches, and reductions in website availability could cause a loss of substantial business volume during the occurrence of any such incident. because the techniques used to sabotage security change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage to reputation, exposure to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability due to regulatory penalties and sanctions. security breaches could also cause travelers and potential users to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. failure to adequately protect against attacks or intrusions, whether for our own systems or systems of vendors, could expose us to security breaches that could have an adverse impact on financial performance. 27 table of contents acquisitions and investments by us could result in operating and financial difficulties. we have acquired a number of businesses in the past, and our future growth may depend, in part, on future acquisitions, any of which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions that may have a material impact on our business are: use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences; expected and unexpected costs incurred in identifying and pursuing acquisitions, and performing due diligence on potential acquisition targets that may or may not be successful; diversion of management attention or other resources from our existing business; difficulties and expenses in integrating the operations, products, technology, privacy protection systems, information systems or personnel of the acquired company; impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and affiliates of our business and the acquired business; the assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the acquired company; failure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated traffic, revenues, earnings or cash flows or to retain key management or employees; failure to generate adequate returns on acquisitions and investments; entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience and increased complexity in our business; impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from acquisitions; and adverse market reaction to acquisitions. moreover, we rely heavily on the representations and warranties provided to us by the sellers of acquired companies, including as they relate to creation, ownership and rights in intellectual property and compliance with laws and contractual requirements. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. we may be unable to access capital when necessary or desirable. the availability of funds depends in significant measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we have no control. in light of periodic uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, there can be no assurance that sufficient financing will be available on desirable or even any terms to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or extraordinary actions or that counterparties in any such financings would honor their contractual commitments. furthermore, we are also accumulating a greater portion of our cash flows in foreign jurisdictions than previously and the repatriation of such funds for use in the united states, including for corporate purposes such as acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or debt refinancings, may result in additional u.s. income tax expense. 28 table of contents we are currently relying on the controlled company exemption under nasdaq stock market listing rules, pursuant to which controlled companies are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements otherwise applicable under nasdaq listing rules. the nasdaq stock market listing rules exempt controlled companies, or companies of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company, from certain corporate governance requirements, including those requirements that: a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we currently rely on the controlled company exemption from the above requirements. accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other nasdaq-listed companies with respect to corporate governance for so long as we rely on these exemptions from the corporate governance requirements. if we are unable to successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and our stock price and business may be adversely impacted. as a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. additionally, we are required to disclose in our annual reports on form 10-k our management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a registered public accounting firm attestation report on this assessment. if we are not successful in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, there could be inaccuracies or omissions in the consolidated financial information we are required to file with the sec. additionally, even if there are no inaccuracies or omissions, we could be required to publicly disclose the conclusion of our management that our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. these events could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, adversely impact our stock price, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits that could be costly to resolve and distract management attention, limit our ability to access the capital markets or cause our stock to be delisted from the nasdaq global select market or any other securities exchange on which we are then listed. we will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. we have never operated as a stand-alone public company. as a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as part of expedia. as a public company, we will be subject to rules and regulations that regulate corporate governance practices of public companies, including the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as amended, and rules promulgated by nasdaq. we expect that compliance with these public company requirements will make some activities more time consuming and may result in a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities. for example, we have created new board committees, adopted new internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, and have devoted and will devote significant management resources to our sec reporting requirements. a number of those requirements will require us to carry out activities we had not done previously. in addition, we are in the process of migrating our accounting platform to a new accounting system, which we believe provides us with the ability to expand our accounting capabilities as our business grows while providing the necessary accounting controls needed for compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, our new and enhanced 29 table of contents accounting system could adversely affect our ability to timely and accurately report financial information, including the filing of our quarterly or annual reports with the sec. when we convert from our prior systems, data integrity problems or other issues may be discovered that if not corrected could impact our business or financial results. we may need to implement additional systems or transition to other new systems that require new expenditures in order to function effectively as a public company. for example, we must document and test our internal control procedures, our management will need to assess and report on our internal control over financial reporting and our registered public accounting firm will need to issue an opinion on that assessment and the effectiveness of those controls. furthermore, if we identify any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if we or our registered public accounting firm identify a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting), we may be required to devote additional management attention to rectify those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect our reputation or investor perceptions of us. there can be no assurance that our implementation of additional systems or transition to new systems will be successful, or that such implementation or transition will not present unforeseen costs or demands on our management. the price of our common stock may be volatile. there has been a public market for our common stock only since the spin-off in december 2011. the market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including: changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in our industry; developments in administrative proceedings or litigation related to intellectual property rights; changes in governmental regulations; quarterly variations in our or our competitors results of operations; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. we anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes. any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price. we have been a public company only since december 2011. for the one-week period ended december 31, 2011, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the nasdaq global select market was slightly above 2 million shares. if our existing stockholders or their distributees sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of the common stock could decrease significantly. the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the trading price of our common stock. in addition, certain stockholders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. 30 table of contents a decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. some of these provisions: authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; stipulate that the chairman of the board of directors may only be removed without cause by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the entire board of directors and such provision may not be amended, altered, changed or repealed or any provision inconsistent therewith adopted without the approval of at least (i) 80% of the entire board of directors and (ii) 80% of the voting power of our outstanding voting securities; and prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies or calling special stockholder meetings. we are subject to the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. these and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we manage our exposure to these risks through established policies and procedures and by assessing the anticipated near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow and market exposures from changes in interest and foreign exchange rates. interest rates we have historically invested excess cash balances primarily in cash deposits, money market investments and time deposits held at major banks, accordingly, we are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates. the spin-off has had a material impact on our interest rate risk due to newly issued variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2011, we had $400 million of debt under our term loan, which has a variable rate. the variable interest rate on the term loan is based on current assumptions, leverage and libor rates. based on our current loan balance through december 31, 2011, a 25 basis point change in our interest rate on the term loan would result in an increase or decrease to interest expense of approximately $1 million per annum. we currently do not hedge our interest rate risk; however, if we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. foreign currency exchange rates we conduct business in certain international markets, primarily the european union, the u.k. and china. because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign exchange rates. our primary exposure to foreign currency risk relates to transacting in foreign currency and recording the activity in u.s. dollars. changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar, the british pound sterling, the euro and other currencies will result in transaction gains or losses, which we recognize in our consolidated and combined statements of operations. as we increase our operations in international markets, we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in currency exchange rates. these movements, if material, could cause us to adjust our financing and operating strategies. currency exchange rates change and translation of statements of operations of our international businesses into u.s. dollars affects year-over-year comparability of operating results. historically, we have not hedged translation risks because cash flows from international operations were generally reinvested locally. foreign exchange gains and losses were not material for the years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009 and were included in other income (expense) on our consolidated and combined statement of operations. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on form 10-q for future periods and current reports on form 8-k as we file them with the securities and exchange commission, or the sec, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through forms 8-k or otherwise, for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any responsibility to update any forward-looking statements to reflect changes in underlying assumptions or factors, new information, future events, or otherwise, and you should not rely upon these forward-looking statements after the date of this report. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview we are the world largest online travel company, empowering users to plan and have the perfect trip. our travel research platform aggregates reviews and opinions from our community about destinations, accommodations (including hotels, resorts, motels, bed and breakfasts, or b&amp;bs, specialty lodging and vacation rentals), restaurants and activities throughout the world through our flagship tripadvisor brand. our branded websites include tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the website in 29 other countries, including in china under the brand daodao.com. our-branded websites globally have received more than 60 million unique visitors (according to july 2012 comscore), and we have built a base of more than 44 million marketable members, which are members we have permission to email on a regular basis, and we feature over 75 million reviews and opinions. beyond travel-related content, our websites also include links to the websites of our customers, including travel advertisers, allowing travelers to directly book their travel arrangements. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we now manage and operate 20 other travel brands, connected by the common goal of providing comprehensive travel planning resources across the travel sector. corporate background the original tripadvisor business was founded in february 2000 and was acquired by iac/interactivecorp, or iac, in april 2004. in august 2005, iac spun-off its portfolio of travel brands, including tripadvisor, into a separate company under the newly-formed delaware corporation, expedia, inc., or expedia. on december 20, 2011, expedia completed the spin-off of tripadvisor as described in more detail in the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview spin-off . evolution of tripadvisor-branded websites since the initial launch of the u.s.-based tripadvisor.com website in november 2000, tripadvisor-branded websites have been added in the following locations: website target location language launch date tripadvisor.com.eg egypt arabic june 2011 tripadvisor.com.my malaysia english march 2011 tripadvisor.tw taiwan chinese (traditional) february 2011 tripadvisor.com.ar argentina spanish december 2010 tripadvisor.co.id indonesia bahasa november 2010 tripadvisor.gr greece greek october 2010 tripadvisor.ru russia russian october 2010 th.tripadvisor.com thailand thai august 2010 tripadvisor.co.kr south korea korean august 2010 tripadvisor.com.sg singapore english august 2010 pl.tripadvisor.com poland polish march 2010 no.tripadvisor.com norway norwegian march 2010 tripadvisor.com.au australia english march 2010 tripadvisor.com.tr turkey turkish december 2009 tripadvisor.com.mx mexico spanish december 2009 tripadvisor.dk denmark danish december 2009 tripadvisor.ca canada english august 2009 tripadvisor.se sweden swedish april 2009 tripadvisor.nl netherlands dutch april 2009 daodao.com china chinese (simplified) april 2009 tripadvisor.com.br brazil portuguese april 2009 tripadvisor.jp japan japanese october 2008 tripadvisor.in india english august 2008 tripadvisor.es spain spanish january 2006 tripadvisor.it italy italian january 2006 tripadvisor.de germany german january 2006 tripadvisor.fr france french january 2006 tripadvisor.co.uk united kingdom english november 2005 tripadvisor.ie ireland english november 2005 3 table of contents other travel brands and websites in addition to the flagship tripadvisor-branded websites, we have also acquired and launched numerous other travel brands, connected by the common characteristic of providing travelers with valuable planning resources across the travel sector. these brands have expanded our reach, product breadth and appeal to domestic and international advertisers. brands acquired include: website date acquired key focus wanderfly.com october 2012 website and mobile application for discovering and sharing personalized travel recommendations. whereivebeen.com july 2011 website and social platform with a detailed interactive world map that lets users share where they have been, lived, and want to go. everytrail.com february 2011 mobile application and website for collecting and sharing geo-tagged user-generated travel content, such as walking tours and itineraries. holidaylettings.co.uk june 2010 a leading u.k.-based vacation rental site, featuring properties listed globally. kuxun.cn october 2009 travel metasearch engine operating in china. flipkey.com august 2008 a vacation rental website featuring a large collection of vacation rental guest reviews on vacation rental properties around the world. onetime.com june 2008 comparison shopping travel website that allows travel shoppers to conduct itinerary-based, multi-site searches for flights, hotels, cruises, vacations, and car rentals. virtualtourist.com june 2008 travel-oriented community website featuring user-contributed travel guides for locations worldwide. airfarewatchdog.com march 2008 provides up-to-date airline deals that have been researched and verified by a team of dedicated airfare experts. holidaywatchdog.com january 2008 u.k.-based website for traveler reviews on hotels and destinations focusing on the mediterranean. cruisecritic.com may 2007 a community of avid and first-time cruisers who enjoy the fun of planning, researching and sharing their passion for cruising. cruise critic offers objective cruise reviews written by expert travel writers and members. independenttraveler.com may 2007 a traveler exchange that features practical travel resources for a community of international travelers who enjoy the adventure of independent travel. seatguru.com march 2007 features aircraft seat maps, seat reviews, and a color-coded system to identify superior and substandard airline seats. bookingbuddy.com february 2007 travel shopping website that gives travelers easy access to airfare, hotel, car rental, cruise, vacation rental, and vacation deals, plus prices from selected travel sites. smartertravel.com february 2007 one of the largest online travel resources of independent expert advice for the budget-conscious traveler. the smartertravel editorial staff provides advice and analysis to help travelers find the best deals and get the most value from their trips. travelpod.com december 2006 pioneering travel blog website. travel-library.com september 2006 travel website with user-generated reviews. 4 table of contents brands developed internally and launched as of december 31, 2012 include: website date launched key focus tingo.com march 2012 the first hotel booking site that automatically rebooks hotel rooms at a lower price if the rate drops and automatically refunds the difference to the travelers credit cards. sniqueaway.com september 2010 u.s.-based members-only flash sale website, providing exclusive limited time access to deals on top hotels at deep discounts. this members-only website offers limited-time discounts exclusively on traveler-endorsed properties that have received a minimum four out of five-star rating (or its equivalent for smaller properties) on tripadvisor.com. familyvacationcritic.com june 2009 reviews of family-friendly hotels, resorts, destinations and attractions, written by experienced family travel experts. industry we operate in the online advertising sector of the global travel industry. as a result, we are impacted by trends in the global travel industry, the online travel market and online advertising. global travel industry according to the phocuswright, gross bookings in the global travel industry are expected to be greater than $1.1 trillion in 2013. recent historical trends show that, each year, an increasing percentage of global travel spending has been conducted online through supplier websites and online travel agencies. we believe that this trend will continue as online penetration continues, as more consumers gain broadband access to the internet, as smartphone, tablets and other mobile computing devices continue to proliferate, and as travel grows along with an expanding middle class in certain developing countries like china and india. online travel market according to the international data corporation, or idc, new media market model, the travel industry represented half of all global e-commerce transactions in 2012. on the other hand, only 19% of the approximately $41 billion spent on travel advertising is spent online. we believe that the internet will continue to become even more integral to the travel-planning process due to increasing worldwide online penetration, particularly given the capabilities that the internet provides travelers, including the ability to refine searches, compare destinations and view real-time pricing. online advertising according to the idc new media market model, the global online advertising market is growing and is projected to exceed $130 billion by 2014, as more and more advertisers continue to shift their spending from offline to online channels, mirroring the trend in consumer media consumption generally. for travel specifically, idc estimates that annual expenditures for global mobile internet travel advertising in 2013 will be close to $15 billion. given the size of the travel market, we believe that travel providers and travel related advertisers are, and will continue to be, motivated to devote significant resources to advertise their travel products and services. in addition, as more and more travel transactions are conducted online generally, we believe that an increasing amount of travel advertising spending will migrate from traditional offline advertising channels to online advertising opportunities. key strengths just over a decade ago, travel research and planning was largely conducted with the assistance and guidance of a personal travel agent or advice from friends and family. consumers had no single resource to access recent 5 table of contents and comprehensive destination, lodging, restaurant and attraction feedback and information. we were founded with the goal of providing an online resource based on user-generated content to prospective travelers. by using the power of the internet to create transparency in the travel planning process with a comprehensive online resource for travel information, we have democratized the travel research and planning process. for any customer with access to the internet, whether through their desktop, smartphone or tablet devices, we provide the ability and information to plan and have the perfect trip. in order to achieve our goals, we leverage our key assets a robust community of users, rich user-generated content, technology and a commitment to continuous innovation and global reach as follows: robust community of users . tripadvisor-branded sites offer benefits to our many constituents, the totality of which combines to create a vibrant community. by providing an interactive forum to share travel experiences, we allow the voice of our large, highly engaged community of travelers to influence travel purchase decision-making during the trip-planning phase. to ease planning, we enable consumers to research pricing and availability from third-party travel booking sites. to facilitate better travel experiences for consumers and to create a feedback loop between the hospitality industry and individual travelers, we allow hospitality management representatives to respond to reviews of their properties on our website. we believe that the robust feedback loop created on tripadvisor-branded websites and the volume of reviews generated on tripadvisor-branded websites provides a sustainable advantage over competitors. we believe that we have the largest breadth of content in our markets, and that, because of this breadth, travelers gravitate to tripadvisor-branded websites to research their travel plans. after completing their trip, consumers can return to our websites to write reviews to give back to the community that helped them plan their trip. through this cycle, more content is generated, which drives community, traffic, loyalty and higher search engine rankings, all of which leads to further content creation. rich user-generated content. we believe that the best travel content comes from the wisdom and insight of a robust community of travelers. we leverage user-generated content to power travel planning by allowing members to create reviews and share opinions on hundreds of thousands of accommodations, destinations, attractions and restaurants. as evidenced by the growth of our business, this type of travel planning has been embraced by travelers. for example, in july 2006, we hosted more than 5 million user reviews and opinions with respect to approximately 220,000 hotels and attractions. currently, tripadvisor-branded websites provide consumers with over 75 million user reviews and opinions with respect to more than 670,000 hotels and accommodations and over 1.2 million restaurants and attractions in more than 120,000 destinations throughout the world. on average, our users are currently adding more than 60 pieces of content every minute. to promote an enthusiastic reviewer community, we have launched several programs to recognize reviewer contributions, including site badges, helpful vote recognition, and other community-focused features, all of which highlight the active and helpful reviews and opinions available throughout the tripadvisor community. technology and innovation . we focus heavily on speed-to-market and product innovation in order to create a richer experience for travelers, and our team deploys weekly engineering releases with new products and features. some recent examples of this product innovation include our recent development of a hotel metasearch product, which makes it even easier for users to research and plan their perfect trip on tripadvisor; facebook integration including facebook connect and open graph, which allows travelers to see their friend travel experiences on tripadvisor and share their own content with their friend network; and friend-of-a-friend review highlighting, which expands the number of friend-connected reviews a user will see; hotel style buttons, which make it easier for users to find the right hotel for their particular travel needs. we are also continuing to invest heavily in the rapidly growing mobile channel, releasing 60 new mobile city guides this past year to bring coverage up to 80 of the most popular cities globally; adding menus to restaurant pages and bookable tickets to attractions pages; releasing hotel pricing and availability improvements; and integrating facebook login into our industry-leading mobile websites as well as tablet and smartphone applications 6 table of contents that are currently available in 20 languages. our innovation also extends to content syndication and review collection partnerships, as we leverage our technology and content for the benefit of other websites. in addition, we expend significant efforts with respect to manual and electronic fraud detection in order to maintain the quality and authenticity of user reviews, and have clear posting guidelines for user content submission. global reach . we maintain a global presence both through the reach of our global portfolio of 30 websites and through our in-market staffing in more than ten countries. we have tripadvisor branded websites in 30 countries and 21 languages at december 31, 2012, including in china under the brand daodao.com. we have over 120 million review translations, and we are committed to continuing to improve the in-country user experience and the local content coverage for all of our points-of-sale. as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately 650 employees based outside of the united states. we believe that our core tripadvisor platform and many of our other brands are uniquely positioned to appeal to travelers globally, in that they strive to provide universally-relevant content and community. our strategy in expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand-building, and advertiser and other partner relationships. for example, we are able to aggregate a large base of consumer reviews, in a variety of languages, across our global core platform. we expect to continue leveraging this investment when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new product features and adding new business model offerings. investment in technology. we believe that our ability to continue to innovate by providing additional functionality to our main internet sites, while at the same time continuing to extend that functionality to additional platforms such as smartphones and tablets, will enable us to continue providing an industry-leading user experience. we have a strong culture of speed-to-market with our innovations. by innovating and releasing updates quickly, we believe that we can continue to grow our site visitors and over 75 million reviews and opinions, increase revenue and effectively compete with our competitors. social platform. we intend to continue to expand our social integration and member acquisition efforts with social media, including facebook, twitter and other social sharing platforms. we believe that this integration will enable us to continue to grow and maintain engagement with our user base and increase our content. for example, when searching for a hotel on tripadvisor, users can see which hotels their facebook friends and friends-of-friends have visited and reviewed. users can share their reviews and ratings with their friends and publish their activity to their timelines. users can also update their travel map and rate new experiences on facebook. metasearch. we have offered a flight metasearch product since 2009 expanding internationally to 19 points of sale in 2012. in 2012, we invested in building a hotel metasearch product for our smartphone platforms and we currently plan to roll out our hotel metasearch product on our desktop and tablet platforms during the next three to six months. a metasearch display is an interface that shows hotel or flight availability and pricing information from multiple sources, without requiring the user to visit another website. we expect to continue to develop our metasearch capabilities, because we believe that by showing users real-time pricing and availability wherever possible across our global points of sale, we can provide a better user experience while delivering highly qualified leads to our advertising partners. investment in search engine marketing . one of the ways that we look to penetrate new markets is to leverage our expertise in search engine marketing, or sem. sem is a form of internet marketing that involves the promotion of websites by increasing their visibility in search engine results pages through the use of paid placement, contextual advertising, and paid inclusion. in certain markets we may bid on keywords to break even or at a loss in order to drive traffic, build our brand, gain more users to our product, collect content and scale more quickly. we think sem is an important channel because it delivers a significant number of brand impressions and can be a cost-effective method to get people to try our sites. 7 table of contents enhance international offerings . we are focused on strengthening our broad global footprint. we are continuing to improve localization and grow our user base in europe, asia and south america, especially in emerging markets, such as brazil, russia and china. these and the other newer sites in asia-pacific represent a longer-term opportunity for us. we believe that china represents a large international opportunity for our business. we currently have two lead product offerings in the chinese market daodao and kuxun both headquartered in beijing. we continue to invest heavily and operate at a loss in the chinese market. acquisitions . we have a history of successfully acquiring and integrating companies that expand our footprint either geographically or in market sectors that are complementary to our flagship properties. we intend to continue to seek acquisition targets. business model we derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. the remainder of our revenue is generated through a combination of subscription-based offerings, selling room nights on our transactional sites sniqueaway and tingo, and other revenue including content licensing. in the year ended december 31, 2012, we earned $588 million of revenue from click-based advertising, $94 million in revenue from display-based advertising and $81 million in revenue from subscription-based offerings, transaction revenue and other revenue. click-based advertising revenue . our largest source of revenue is click-based advertising, which includes links to our partners booking sites and contextually-relevant branded and unbranded textlinks. our click-based advertising partners are predominantly online travel agencies and direct suppliers in the hotel, airline and cruise product categories. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc, basis, with payments from advertisers based on the number of users who click on each type of link. most of our click-based advertising contracts can be terminated by the advertisers at will or on short notice. display-based advertising revenue . we earn revenue from a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites through which our advertising partners can promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner. while our display-based advertising clients are predominately direct suppliers in the hotel, airline and cruise categories and online travel agencies, we also accept display advertising from marketing organizations, casinos, resorts and attractions, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. we generally sell our display-based advertising on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. our display-based advertising products also include a number of custom-built products including the sponsorship of certain site features and functionality, as well as certain customized co-branded features. subscription-based, transaction and other revenue . we offer advertising via a subscription model that is sold for a flat fee per time period. managed by our tripadvisor for business division, this advertising product, business listings, is currently offered to hotels, b&amp;bs and other specialty lodging properties and allows subscribers to list a website url, email address and phone number on tripadvisor-branded websites as well as to post special offers for travelers. our vacation rentals product allows individual vacation property owners and property managers to pay a subscription fee to list properties on our holiday lettings and flipkey websites, as well as on select tripadvisor-branded websites. other sources of revenue include selling room nights on our transactional sites, sniqueaway and tingo, as well as content licensing arrangements with third-party sites. 8 table of contents strategic relationships click-based advertisers we have click-based advertising relationships with the vast majority of the leading online travel agencies globally as well as a variety of other travel suppliers pursuant to which these companies purchase traveler leads from us, generally on a cpc basis. for the year ended december 31, 2012, approximately $204 million, or 27%, of our total revenue was derived from expedia businesses. at the time of the spin-off from expedia, or the spin-off, new commercial arrangements with expedia-owned brands, including expedia.com and hotels.com were implemented. for a discussion of these commercial arrangements, see note 16 related party transactions in the notes to our consolidated and combined financial statements. for the year ended december 31, 2012, our two most significant advertising customers accounted for a combined 48% of total revenue. these and our other click-based advertising relationships are strategically important to us and most can be terminated by the advertiser at will or on short notice. content-related partnerships we have a content licensing program utilized by over 575 partners across the world, including hotel chains, online travel agents, tourist boards, airlines and media sites. tripadvisor also distributes its content through self-service html widgets, which are used on the websites of hotels, restaurants, attractions and destination marketing organizations. these products, which are available at no cost in the tripadvisor management center, allow businesses and destinations to promote themselves by displaying their tripadvisor ratings, reviews and awards. tripadvisor widgets are presently found on more than 70,000 unique domains around the globe, reaching over 300 million people per month. partners benefit from our user-generated content, such as reviews, ratings, photos and traveler forums. in addition we power review collection for a growing number of partners such as accor hotels, wyndham hotel group and easytobook.com, enabling them to proactively collect reviews from their own customers post-stay in their own branded environment. we have also developed partnerships with mobile carriers and device manufacturers. syndication partners we also syndicate our click-based advertising to third-party websites. the largest such syndication relationship is with yahoo! travel guides, pursuant to which we provide show prices advertising on the yahoo! travel guides hotel pages. marketing and promotions our marketing programs are intended to build and maintain the value of our brands, promote consumer engagement and contributions, drive qualified clicks to our partners and strategically position our brands in the market. our long-term success depends on our continued ability to maintain and increase the overall number of consumers flowing through our brand in a cost-effective manner, as well as our ability to attract consumers who will share their own content from their trips. our marketing channels include sem and search engine optimization. we also utilize customer relationship marketing in which we send relevant and engaging traveler communications to our members via email. we have a robust global public relations program that yields placements on a constant basis in major print and online publications. we continue to look for new ways to build brand awareness and expand new channels, which may include traditional media and social media channels including facebook and twitter to deepen customer engagement. we syndicate our content so that other sites can feature tripadvisor branding and content. lastly, marketing and product development initiatives are closely tied. we are constantly creating helpful features and functionality so that our consumers can discover more relevant travel and review content that they want to talk about and share with their friends. 9 table of contents operations and technology we have assembled a team of highly skilled software engineers, computer scientists, data scientists, network engineers, and systems engineers whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas, including a wide variety of open source operating systems, databases, languages, analytics, networking, scalable web architecture, operations, and warehousing technologies. we make significant investments in product and feature development, data management and personalization technologies, scalable infrastructures, networking, data warehousing, and search engine technologies. the tripadvisor branded websites are powered primarily using java programming language. our systems infrastructure, web and database servers for tripadvisor branded websites are housed at two geographically separate facilities and have multiple communication links as well as continuous monitoring and engineering support. each facility is fully self-sufficient and operational with its own hardware, networking, software, and content, and is structured in an active/passive, fully redundant configuration. substantially all of our software components, data, and content are replicated in multiple datacenters and development centers, as well as being backed up at offsite locations. our systems are monitored and protected though multiple layers of security. several of our individual subsidiaries and businesses, including our subsidiaries in china, have their own data infrastructure and technology teams. competition we face competition for users, advertisers and travel reviews. our primary competitors include large search engines, such as google, microsoft bing, yahoo! and baidu, and online travel agencies such as expedia and priceline, and their respective subsidiaries. we also compete with a wide range of other companies, including, among others, facebook, inc., airbnb, inc., ctrip.com international, ltd., holidaycheck ag, homeaway.com, inc., kayak software corporation, qunar.com information technology co. ltd., trivago gmbh and yelp, inc. certain of the companies we do business with, including some of our click-based advertising partners, are also our competitors. the consolidation of our competitors and partners, including expedia (through its investment in trivago) and priceline (through its announced acquisition of kayak), may affect our competitiveness and partner relationships. as the market evolves for online travel content and the technology supporting it, including new platforms such as smartphone and tablet computing devices, we anticipate that the existing competitive landscape will change and new competitors may emerge. competition for content and travel reviews we are the world largest global platform for travel-related reviews and opinions. we face competition in the travel review space from online travel agencies, such as expedia and priceline and their respective subsidiaries, which solicit reviews from travelers who book travel on their websites. moreover, networks with significant installed user bases such as google (for example, via google + local and google hotel finder) have begun to, and other networks or platforms, like facebook, could choose to, compete more directly with us by attracting and accumulating user-generated travel reviews and opinions or may pursue the acquisition of travel-related content directly from consumers. competition for users in the competition to attract users, we rely on our ability to acquire traffic through offline brand recognition and brand-direct efforts such as email and online search, whether unpaid or paid. unpaid search is sometimes referred to as search engine optimization, or seo, which is the practice of developing websites with relevant and current content that rank well in organic, or unpaid, search engine results. seo can be affected by a number of factors including competitive site content, changes to our website architecture and page designs, changes to search engine ranking algorithms, or changes to display ordering in search engine results such as preferred placement for internal products offered by search engines. sem is a form of internet marketing that involves the promotion of websites by increasing their visibility in search engine results pages through the use of paid 10 table of contents placement, contextual advertising, and paid inclusion. sem is a competitive marketplace with competitors continually updating their traffic acquisition strategies and economic models across a large number of keywords and markets. competition for advertisers we compete with search engines, such as google, bing, and yahoo!, online media companies and ad networks, as well as offline advertising sources, such as television and print media, for travel supplier, online travel agency and other travel-related advertising budgets. these competitors have large client bases and significantly greater resources than we have and competition from these parties could cause us to lose advertising customers or shares of advertising expenditures. however, we believe that our large audience of highly-qualified, highly-engaged users makes tripadvisor an important strategic buy for online travel agents and hotel partners. intellectual property our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology and trade secrets, is an important component of our business. we rely on our intellectual property rights in our content, proprietary technology, software code, ratings indexes, databases of reviews and forum content, images, videos, graphics and brands. we have acquired some of our intellectual property rights through licenses and content agreements with third parties. these licenses and agreements may place restrictions on our use of the intellectual property. we protect our intellectual property by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, as well as on international, national, state and common law rights. in addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. we protect our brands by pursuing the trademark registration of our core brands, such as tripadvisor and the owl logo, maintaining our trademark portfolio, securing contractual trademark rights protection when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. we also register copyrights and domain names as deemed appropriate. additionally, we protect our trademarks, domain names and copyrights with an enforcement program and the use of intellectual property licenses. we have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future inventions, as circumstances may warrant. however, many patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us. regulation we are subject to a number of united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet, many of which are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. these may involve user privacy, libel, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation and online payment services. in particular, we are subject to united states federal and state and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. in addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations is often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate. there are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the united states congress, various state legislative bodies, and foreign governments concerning data protection which could affect us. for example, a revision to the 1995 european union data protection directive is currently being considered by legislative bodies that may include more stringent operational requirements for data processors and significant penalties for non-compliance. 11 table of contents in addition, we provide advertising data and information and conduct marketing activities that are subject to united states federal and state consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices, domestically and internationally. the united states and european union have begun to adopt legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, and liability for third-party activities. united states federal, state and foreign governments are also considering alternative legislative and regulatory proposals that would increase regulation on internet advertising. it is impossible to predict whether new taxes or regulations will be imposed on our services, and whether or how we might be affected. increased regulation of the internet could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operational results. segment and geographic areas we have one reportable segment. segment and geographical information is contained in note 17 segment information in the notes to our consolidated and combined financial statements. employees as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately 1,575 employees. of these employees, approximately 925 were based in the united states. none of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. we believe that relations with our employees are good. seasonality expenditures by travel advertisers tend to be seasonal. traditionally, our strongest quarter has been the third quarter, which is a key travel research period, with the weakest quarter historically being the fourth quarter. however, adverse economic conditions or continued growth of our international operations with differing holiday peaks may influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. additional information company website and public filings we maintain a corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the sec. we make available, free of charge through the investor relations section of our website, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a) or section 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. code of ethics we post our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers, senior financial officers and directors, on our corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. our code of business conduct and ethics complies with item 406 of sec regulation s-k and the rules of nasdaq. we intend to disclose any changes to the code that affect the provisions required by item 406 of regulation s-k, and any waivers of the code of ethics for our executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, on our corporate website. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock involves risks. you should consider carefully the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. please refer to the section entitled cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements on page 1 of this annual report on form 10-k in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. if we or our partners are unable to successfully monetize our user traffic, or if our partners choose not to advertise with us, or choose to reduce their spending with us, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. even if we succeed in driving traffic to our websites, neither we nor our partners may be able to monetize this traffic or otherwise retain consumers. we maintain relationships with our click-based advertising partners, predominantly online travel agencies and direct suppliers in the hotel and airline product categories, and include their data and content in our search results. the loss of existing relationships with our partners, or an inability to continue to add new ones, may result in our hotel metasearch display providing incomplete pricing, availability and other information, which could reduce user confidence and have an adverse impact on traffic. a metasearch product is an interface that displays availability and pricing information from multiple sources on one page. our revenues are based significantly on cpc pricing and volume of clicks by our users. we expect that click volume may decrease as a result of our transition to hotel metasearch display, but that cpc pricing levels will rise. to the extent that the expected increase in cpc pricing levels does not sufficiently offset the expected drop in click volume, our financial performance may be materially adversely affected. we cannot guarantee that our partners will continue to advertise with us. if our partners choose not to advertise with us, or choose to reduce their spending with us, our financial performance may be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to continue to increase visitors to our websites and to cost-effectively convert these visitors into repeat users or contributors, our advertising revenue could decline. the primary asset that we use to attract traffic to our websites and convert these visitors into repeat users is the content created by users of our websites, particularly such content volume, unique nature and organization. our success in attracting users depends, in part, upon our continued ability to collect, create, organize and distribute high-quality, commercially valuable content in a cost-effective manner at a scale that connects consumers with content that meets their specific interests and enables them to share and interact with the content and supporting communities. there can be no assurances that we will continue to receive content in a cost-effective manner or in a manner that timely meets rapidly changing consumer demand, if at all. any failure to obtain such content could adversely affect user experiences and reduce traffic driven to our websites, which would make our websites less attractive to advertisers. any change in the cost structure pursuant to which we obtain our content currently, or in travelers relative appreciation of user-based versus expert content, could negatively impact our business and financial performance. our businesses could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation. we rely heavily on internet search engines such as google, including through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites. we obtain a significant amount of traffic via search engines and, therefore, utilize techniques such as seo and sem to improve our placement in relevant search queries. search engines, including google, frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. moreover, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our websites to place lower in search query results. if a major search engine 13 table of contents changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects our paid or unpaid search ranking, or if competitive dynamics impact the effectiveness of seo or sem in a negative manner, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected, potentially to a material extent. furthermore, our failure to successfully manage our seo and sem strategies could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic. in addition, to the extent that google (including google + local and google hotel finder) and ) bing (including bing travel), or other leading search or metasearch engines that have a significant presence in our key markets, disintermediate online travel agencies or travel content providers by offering comprehensive travel planning or shopping capabilities, or refer those leads to suppliers directly, or to other favored partners, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. for example, during 2011, google completed its acquisition of flight search technology company ita software and separately made changes to its hotel search results, including both expanding and promoting the use of google + local. to the extent these actions have a negative effect on our search traffic, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our businesses and financial performance. our businesses and financial performance are affected by the health of the worldwide travel industry. travel expenditures are sensitive to personal and business discretionary spending levels and tend to decline or grow more slowly during economic downturns. decreased travel expenditures could reduce the demand for our services, thereby causing a reduction in revenue. most recently, beginning in 2008, domestic and global economic conditions deteriorated rapidly, resulting in increased unemployment and a reduction in available budgets for both business and leisure travelers, which slowed spending on the services that we provide. the global economy remains in a fragile state and may be adversely impacted by a number of negative economic developments including defaults on government debt, significant increases in fuel and energy costs, tax increases and other matters that could reduce discretionary spending, continued tightening of credit markets, further declines in consumer confidence, and policy missteps. further weakness in the global economy could create uncertainty for travelers and suppliers, and result in reduced spending by advertisers. these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. we derive substantially all of our revenue from advertising and any significant reduction in spending by advertisers could harm our business. most of our advertisers can generally terminate their contracts with us at any time or on very short notice. advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in such advertising does not generate sales leads, customers, bookings, or revenue and profit on a cost-effective basis, or if we do not deliver advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner. if we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our advertisers, they will likely stop placing ads on our websites, which would harm our revenues and business. in addition, we cannot guarantee that our current advertisers will fulfill their obligations under existing contracts, continue to advertise beyond the terms of existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts with us. expenditures by advertisers also tend to be cyclical, subject to variation based on budgetary constraints, project cancellation or delay, and to reflect overall economic conditions and buying patterns. if we are unable to generate advertising revenue due to factors outside of our control, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected. click-based advertising accounts for the majority of our advertising revenue. any changes we make to our business model, including a transition to a hotel metasearch display, may impact our advertising revenue in ways 14 table of contents that we do not expect. if our partners do not receive the benefits they expect from their advertising spend with us, they may reduce their spending. in addition, if new, more effective advertising models were to emerge, there can be no assurance that we will have the ability to offer these models, or offer them in an effective manner. to the extent new technology platforms, such as smartphone and tablet computing, begin to take market share from established platforms, there can be no assurance that our existing advertising models will operate successfully on these new platforms, or work as effectively as on the desktop computer platform. furthermore, our cpc pricing for click-based advertising depends, in part, on competition between advertisers. if our large advertisers become less competitive with each other, merge with each other or with our competitors, focus more on per-click profit than on traffic volume, or are able to reduce cpcs, this would have an adverse impact on our cpcs which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a relatively small number of significant advertisers and any reduction in spending by or loss of those advertisers could seriously harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of significant advertisers. if any of our significant advertisers were to cease or to significantly curtail advertising on our websites, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenue over a relatively short period of time. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2012, our two most significant advertising customers accounted for a combined 48% of total revenue. changes we make to our user experience and business model may not yield the benefits we expect and may have adverse impacts that we did not anticipate. we are continually working to improve our user experience and business model in order to drive user traffic and conversion rates. we can give no assurances that the changes we make will yield the benefits we expect and will not have adverse impacts that we did not anticipate. if we reverse any of the changes we make to our user experience or business model we may incur additional costs, reputational harm and a decline in user traffic and advertising revenue. our success depends upon the acceptance, and successful measurement, of online advertising as an alternative to offline advertising. we believe that a significant discrepancy exists between the percentage of the advertising market allocated to online advertising and the percentage of consumer time spent on online media consumption as opposed to offline advertising and media consumption. long-term growth of our business will depend heavily on this distinction between online and offline advertising narrowing or being eliminated, which may not happen in a manner or to the extent that we currently expect. we compete with traditional media for advertising dollars, in addition to websites with higher levels of traffic. if online advertising ceases to be an acceptable alternative to offline advertising, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. because the online marketing industry is relatively new and rapidly evolving, it uses different methods than traditional media to gauge its effectiveness. some of our potential customers have little or no experience using the internet for advertising and marketing purposes and have allocated only limited portions of their advertising and marketing budgets to the internet. the adoption of internet advertising, particularly by those entities that have historically relied upon traditional media for advertising, requires the acceptance of a new way of conducting business, exchanging information and evaluating new advertising and marketing technologies and services. as a result, we are continually evaluating changes to aspects of our business model to keep pace with the expectations of users and advertisers, and these changes may not yield the benefits we expect. in particular, we are dependent on our clients adoption of new metrics to measure the success of online marketing campaigns. we may also experience resistance from traditional advertising agencies who may be advising our clients. any 15 table of contents lack of growth in the market for various online advertising models could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if advertisers materially change their transaction attribution models or their return on investment calculations and/or increase their return on investment targets with respect to online advertising in general, or tripadvisor traffic in particular, they might reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our advertising products, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may experience difficulty in achieving meaningful consumer adoption of, and creating a viable advertising market via, our applications for smartphone computing devices, which could harm our business. in general, our content was originally designed for users accessing the internet on a desktop or laptop computer. the number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers has increased substantially in the last few years. although we have developed services and applications to address the smaller screens, and less convenient typing capabilities of these devices, the efficacy of the smartphone advertising market is still developing. moreover, if our smartphone computing services prove to be less effective for users seeking to research travel through these devices or less economically attractive for advertisers and the smartphone segment of internet traffic grows at the expense of traditional computer and tablet internet access, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining traffic and, in turn, advertisers, on these platforms. additionally, as new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the challenges that we may encounter in developing versions of our offerings for use on these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of our services on such devices. to the extent that revenue generated from advertising placed on smartphone computing devices becomes increasingly more important to our business and we fail to adequately evolve and address this market, our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted. we rely on the value of our brand and consumer trust in our brand, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing brand awareness are increasing. we invest in our brand in order to retain and expand our customer base and expect these investments to continue, or even increase, as a result of a variety of factors, including increased spending from competitors, the increasing costs of supporting multiple brands, expansion into geographies and products where our brands are less well known, inflation in media pricing, including sem keywords, and the continued emergence and relative traffic share growth of search engines and metasearch engines as destination sites for travelers. we expect to continue to invest in, and devote resources to, advertising and marketing, as well as other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands. such efforts may not maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective, or as efficient as they have been historically. if we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands or to generate demand in a cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. we face competition from companies and websites that collect travel-related content, which could divert traffic from our websites causing financial harm to us. we may face increased competition to the extent that competitors pursue a strategy to maximize the creation of commercially valuable online content at significant scale. for example, if any of the large search engines, online travel agencies or other companies chose to compete more directly with us in the travel review space, we may face loss of business or other adverse financial consequences since those entities generally possess significantly greater consumer bases, financial resources, distribution channels and patent portfolios. for example, google + local, with its aggregated reviews and local recommendations, competes with us. further, google access to more comprehensive data regarding user search queries through its search algorithms gives it a significant competitive advantage over other companies in the industry, including us. if this data is used 16 table of contents competitively by google, sold to online publishers or given away for free, our business may face increased competition from companies, including google, with substantially greater resources, brand recognition and established market presence. facebook may also compete with us in new and unknown ways. for example, if significant numbers of users adopt facebook newly released graph search to get travel recommendations, it could have the effect of reducing traffic and user engagement on tripadvisor. we could also face competition from online travel agents that may be in a position to accumulate and develop a comprehensive offering of travel-related reviews and resources. the barriers to entry for these companies may be limited given their access to travel-related information and relationships with consumers. if online travel agents were to more aggressively pursue our market, the number of visitors to our websites may be negatively affected, which would, in turn, negatively impact our community and ability to collect content and also to reduce our ability to attract advertisers. online travel agents are also a meaningful source of revenue for us, so if in competing with us, these companies decide to reduce or eliminate their business with us, and it could significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition. any of these competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that attract users. many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources compared to us as well as large client bases. in addition, we compete with newspapers, magazines and other traditional media companies that provide offline and online advertising opportunities. we expect to face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the travel advertising market. certain of the companies we do business with, including some of our click-based advertising partners, are also our competitors. the consolidation of our competitors and partners, including expedia (through its investment in trivago) and priceline (through its announced acquisition of kayak), may affect our relative competitiveness and our partner relationships. competition and consolidation could result in higher traffic acquisition costs, reduced margins on our advertising services, loss of market share, reduced customer traffic to our websites and reduced advertising by travel companies on our websites. for example, google (through its launch of google hotel finder, acquisition of ita software, evolution and expansion of google + local and preferred top placement of places results in google organic travel search results), microsoft bing (through its launch of bing travel), have each taken steps to appeal more directly to travel customers, which could lead to diversion of customer traffic to their own websites or those of a favored partner, or undermine our ability to obtain prominent placement in paid or unpaid search results at a reasonable cost, or at all. competition in our industry may result in pricing pressure, loss of market share or decreased member engagement, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. as a distributor and host of internet content, we face potential liability and expense for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we distribute or create, or that are accessible via our websites. as a distributor and host of original content and user-generated content, we face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including defamation, libel, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories based on the nature, creation or distribution of this information, and under various laws, including the lanham act, the copyright act, the federal trade commission act, the digital millennium copyright act, section 230 of the communications decency act, and the european union e-commerce directive. we may also be exposed to similar liability in connection with content that users post to our websites through forums, blogs, comments, and other social media features. in addition, it is possible that visitors to our websites could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance upon information provided via our websites. these claims, whether brought in the united states or abroad, could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. if we become subject to these or similar claims and are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. there is no guarantee that we will avoid future liability and potential expenses for legal claims based on the content available on our websites. should the content distributed through our websites violate the rights of others or otherwise give rise to claims against us, we could be subject to substantial liability, which could have a negative impact on our business and financial performance. 17 table of contents loss of trust in our brand would harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends on attracting a large number of users to our websites, and retaining such users, and providing leads and clicks to advertisers. in order to attract and retain users, we must remain a valuable source of travel advice. because of our reliance on user-generated content, we must continually manage and monitor our content and detect incorrect or fraudulent information. for example, hotels, hotel competitors, or others, in an attempt to improperly influence a hotel reviews and rankings, sometimes write and submit fraudulent or otherwise misleading reviews. if a significant amount of inaccurate or fraudulent information were not detected and removed by us in a timely manner, or if a significant amount of information was deemed by users or the media to be inaccurate or fraudulent, our brand, business and reputation could be harmed. any damage to our reputation could harm our ability to attract and retain users, employees and advertisers, which would adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, significant adverse news reports or media, industry or consumer coverage of us would reflect poorly on our brands and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. we are dependent upon the quality of traffic in our network to provide value to online advertisers, and any failure in our quality control could have a material adverse effect on the value of our websites to our advertisers and adversely affect our revenue. we use technology and processes to monitor the quality of and to identify any anomalous metrics associated with, the internet traffic that we deliver to online advertisers. these metrics may be indicative of low quality clicks such as non-human processes, including robots, spiders or other software; the mechanical automation of clicking; and other types of invalid clicks or click fraud. even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low-quality traffic, or traffic that online advertisers deem to be invalid, will be delivered to such online advertisers. as a result, we may be required to credit amounts owed to us by our advertisers. furthermore, low-quality or invalid traffic may be detrimental to our relationships with advertisers, and could adversely affect our advertising pricing and revenue. new technologies could block our ads, which would harm our business. technologies have been developed that can block the display of online ads and that provide tools to users to opt out of some web-based advertising products. we derive most of our revenues from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of ads on web pages for our users. as a result, these technologies and tools could adversely affect our business and financial performance. unfavorable media coverage could negatively affect our business. we receive significant media coverage in our various geographic markets. unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our privacy practices, product changes, the accuracy of user-generated content, product quality, litigation or regulatory activity could adversely affect our reputation with our site users and our advertisers. such negative publicity also could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement, and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. if we do not continue to innovate and provide tools and services that are useful to travelers, we may not remain competitive, and our business and financial performance could suffer. our success depends in part on continued innovation to provide features and services that make our websites and smartphone and tablet computing applications useful for travelers. our competitors are continually developing innovations in online travel-related services and features. if we are unable to provide quality features and services that travelers want to use, then travelers may become dissatisfied and use a competitor offerings. if we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services, we may be unable to attract additional users, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 18 table of contents our culture emphasizes rapid innovation and prioritizes user engagement over short-term financial results. we have a culture that encourages employees to quickly develop and release new and improved products, which may at times result in unintended consequences or decisions that are poorly received by users or advertisers. our culture also prioritizes user engagement, or website stickiness, over short-term financial results. we have taken actions in the past and may continue to make product decisions going forward that have the effect of reducing our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions benefit the aggregate user experience and/or conversion rates and cpc pricing, and will thereby improve our financial performance over the long-term. the short-term reductions in revenue or profitability could be more severe than we anticipate. these decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with users and advertisers, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. for example, if our hotel metasearch product is not embraced by our users or advertising partners, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully expand into the vacation rental marketplace. we offer vacation rental services through our u.s.-based flipkey and u.k.-based holiday lettings businesses, as well through various partnerships. the online vacation rental market is relatively new and is rapidly evolving, and limited data is currently available regarding the market and industry. our vacation rental services may not succeed, and, even if successful, our revenues may not increase. these new services could also increase our operating costs. furthermore, a larger competitor exists in the vacation rental space, with significantly more users and listed properties, and new competitors with significant financial resources are continually emerging. if property owners and managers do not perceive the benefits of marketing their properties online or marketing their properties with several intermediaries, then the market for our services may not develop as expected, or it may develop more slowly than expected, either of which would slow the growth of our business and revenues. growth in use of tripadvisor through our smartphone products as a substitute for use on personal computers and tablets may negatively affect our revenue and financial results. we anticipate that the rate of growth in smartphone and tablet users will continue to exceed the growth rate of our overall users for the foreseeable future, in part due to our focus on developing smartphone and tablet products to encourage usage of tripadvisor. although the substantial majority of smartphone users also access and engage with our websites on personal computers and/or tablets, where we display advertising, our users could decide to increasingly access our products primarily through smartphone devices. we do not currently display graphic advertising on smartphones and our smartphone monetizing strategies are still developing. if users continue to increasingly access our smartphone products as a substitute for access through personal computers and/or tablets, and if we are unable to successfully improve monetization strategies for our smartphone users, our revenue and financial results may be negatively affected. we may be subject to claims that we violated intellectual property rights of others, which claims are extremely costly to defend and could require us to pay significant damages and limit our ability to operate. companies in the internet and technology industries, and other patent and trademark holders seeking to profit from royalties in connection with grants of licenses, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. we have received in the past, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties intellectual property rights. there may be intellectual property rights held by others, including patents, copyrighted works and/or trademarks, which cover significant aspects of our technologies or content. any intellectual property claim against us, regardless of merit, could be time consuming and expensive to settle or litigate and could divert management attention and other resources. these claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using 19 table of contents technology or content found to be in violation of another party rights. we might be required or may opt to seek a license for rights to intellectual property held by others, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, or content, which could require significant effort and expense and make us less competitive in the relevant market. any of these results could harm our business and financial performance. we may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. we are party to a term loan in the amount of $400 million, as well as a revolving credit facility of $200 million. these arrangements may limit our ability to secure significant additional financing in the future on favorable terms. our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, we may be unable to secure additional financing or financing on favorable terms, or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time (if any). furthermore, if financing is not available when needed or is not available on favorable terms, we may be unable to issue or repurchase equity, develop new or enhanced existing services, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. we have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. the face value of our term loan totals $400 million. risks relating to our indebtedness include: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; making it more difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; possibly placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms that we finds acceptable; and exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our outstanding debt is expected to be subject to variable rates of interest. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our term loan and revolving credit facility will allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. the agreements that govern our credit facility contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants. the failure to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. we are party to a credit agreement providing for a revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $200 million and a term of five years, as well as a five-year, $400 million term loan to tripadvisor holdings, 20 table of contents llc. the agreements that govern the term loan and revolving credit facility contain various covenants, including those that limit our ability to, among other things: incur indebtedness; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; enter into certain asset sale transactions, including partial or full spin-off transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to optimally operate our business. in addition, our term loan and revolving credit facility require that we meet certain financial tests, including an interest coverage test and a leverage ratio test. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our term loan credit facility may result in an event of default under the agreements governing such facilities. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the debt incurred under thereunder. in addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds (including periodic rollovers of existing borrowings). conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may develop between the management and directors of expedia, on the one hand, and our management and directors, on the other hand. some members of the management and some directors of expedia and tripadvisor own both expedia capital stock and our capital stock. in addition, liberty interactive corporation controls the vote of approximately 56.6% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock and also owns a significant number of shares of expedia common stock. in addition, mr. diller serves as a director of tripadvisor as well as chairman and senior executive of expedia. these circumstances could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when expedia and our directors and executive officers face decisions that could have different implications for expedia and us. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between expedia and us regarding terms of the agreements governing the spin-off and our relationship with expedia following the spin-off, including the separation agreement, the employee matters agreement, the tax sharing agreement, the transition services agreement between us and expedia or any commercial agreements between us and expedia. potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we enter into commercial arrangements with expedia in the future. we have adopted corporate opportunity provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that generally provide that no officer or director of tripadvisor who is also an officer or director of expedia will be liable to tripadvisor or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to expedia instead of tripadvisor, or does not communicate information to tripadvisor regarding a corporate opportunity that the officer or director has directed to expedia. in addition, expedia amended and restated certificate of incorporation renounces any interest or expectancy in certain corporate opportunities, which generally have the effect that no officer or director of expedia who is also an officer or director of tripadvisor will be liable to expedia or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to us instead of expedia, or does not communicate information to expedia regarding a corporate opportunity that the officer or director has directed to us. the corporate opportunity provisions may have the effect of exacerbating the risk of conflicts of interest between expedia and us because the provisions effectively shield an overlapping director/executive officer from liability for breach of fiduciary duty in the event that such director or officer chooses to direct a corporate opportunity to us instead of to expedia or vice versa. 21 table of contents if the spin-off, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to significant tax liabilities. as a condition to the completion of the spin-off, expedia obtained a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or the irs, along with an opinion of counsel, satisfactory to the expedia board of directors regarding the qualification of the spin-off, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a) (1) (d) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. the irs private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel were based on, among other things, certain facts, assumptions as well as the accuracy of certain representations, statements and undertakings that expedia and we made to the irs and to counsel. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if we or expedia breach any of the covenants, the irs private letter ruling and the opinions of counsel may be invalid. moreover, the irs private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the spin-off qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. notwithstanding the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel, the irs could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the irs private letter ruling or on which the opinion of counsel was based is false or has been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel that are not covered by any irs ruling. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. we may not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances due to our tax sharing agreement with expedia. our ability to engage in significant stock transactions could be limited or restricted after the spin-off in order to preserve the tax free nature of the spin-off to expedia. u.s. federal income tax law provides that the spin-off would be taxable to expedia, but not to its stockholders, if such spin-off is part of a plan or series of related transactions pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in us or expedia. acquisitions that occur during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of the spin-off are presumed to occur pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions, unless it is established that the acquisition is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions that includes the spin-off. u.s. treasury regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether an acquisition and a spin-off are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the treasury regulations. in addition, the treasury regulations provide several safe harbors for acquisitions that are not considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions. these rules will limit our ability during the two-year period following the spin-off to enter into certain transactions that might be advantageous to us and our stockholders, particularly issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, repurchasing equity securities, and, under certain limited circumstances, acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities or agreeing to be acquired. under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take such actions that could cause the spin-off to fail to qualify as a tax free transaction prior to january 21, 2014. 22 table of contents in addition, a sale or disposition of the stock of expedia or our stock by certain persons that own 5% or more of any class of our stock could disqualify the tax free status of the spin-off. liberty interactive corporation and its affiliates own stock of tripadvisor representing 56.6% by vote and 21.7% beneficial ownership. accordingly, in evaluating our ability to engage in certain transactions involving our equity securities, it is possible that expedia and we will need to take into account the activities of liberty interactive corporation and its affiliates. we rely on information technology to operate our business and maintain competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our businesses. we depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems. as our operations grow in size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining or improving the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to competitive service and product offerings. the emergence of alternative platforms such as smartphone and tablet computing devices and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology. new developments in other areas, such as cloud computing, could also make it easier for competition to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. in addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand, results of operations and business could be harmed. we have experienced rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which places substantial demands on management and our operational infrastructure. we intend to make substantial investments in our technology, sales and marketing and community management organizations. as we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, including employees in international markets, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. if we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and business. our international operations involve additional risks and our exposure to these risks will increase as our business expands globally. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states and intend to continue to expand our international operations. to achieve widespread acceptance in new countries and markets, we must continue to tailor our services and business model to the unique circumstances of such countries and markets, which can be difficult, costly and divert management and personnel resources. failure to adapt practices and models effectively to each country into which we expand could slow our international growth. we have businesses operating in china, which create particular risks and uncertainties relating to the laws in china. we operate in china under the brands daodao.com and kuxun.cn. the success of these businesses, and of any future investments in china, is subject to risks and uncertainties regarding the application, development and interpretation of china laws and regulations. the laws and regulations of china restrict foreign investment in areas including air-ticketing and travel agency services, internet content provision, mobile communication and related businesses. although we have established effective control of our chinese businesses through a series of agreements, future developments in the interpretation or enforcement of chinese laws and regulations or a dispute relating to these agreements could restrict our ability to operate or restructure these businesses or to engage in strategic transactions. 23 table of contents other risks faced by us as a result of our international operations, including our operations in china, include: political instability; threatened or actual acts of terrorism; regulatory requirements, including the foreign corrupt practices act and newly enacted u.k. bribery act, data privacy requirements, labor laws and anti-competition regulations; ability to comply with additional u.s. laws applicable to u.s. companies operating internationally as well as local laws and regulations; diminished ability to legally enforce contractual rights; increased risk and limits on enforceability of intellectual property rights; possible preferences by local populations for local providers; restrictions on, or adverse consequences related to, the withdrawal of non-u.s. investment and earnings; currency exchange restrictions, particularly conversion of the u.s. dollar into chinese renminbi; restrictions on repatriation of cash as well as restrictions on investments in operations in certain countries; financial risk arising from transactions in multiple currencies; slower adoption of the internet as an advertising, broadcast and commerce medium in certain of those markets as compared to the united states; difficulties in managing staffing and operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences; and uncertainty regarding liability for services, content and intellectual property rights, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of precedent. we depend on our key personnel. our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior corporate management. in particular, the contributions of stephen kaufer, our president, chief executive officer and a director, are critical to our overall management. our future success will depend on the performance of our senior management and key employees. we cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of these key personnel or any other member of our senior management or key employees, the loss of whom could seriously harm our business. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. in addition, competition remains intense for well-qualified employees in certain aspects of our business, including software engineers, developers, product management and development personnel, and other technology professionals. our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. if we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining or motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business or financial performance. our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business, including those relating to the internet and online commerce, internet 24 table of contents advertising, consumer protection and privacy. unfavorable changes could decrease demand for products and services, limit marketing methods and capabilities, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. for example, there is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce that may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of products and services. our current business partner arrangements with third parties, including facebook, could be negatively impacted to the extent that more restrictive privacy laws or regulations are enacted, particularly in the united states or european union. in addition, enforcement authorities in the united states continue to rely on their authority under existing consumer protection laws to take action against companies relating to data privacy and security practices. the growth and development of online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws and more aggressive enforcement efforts, which may impose additional burdens on online businesses generally. liberty interactive corporation currently is a controlling shareholder. liberty interactive corporation effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of our stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of our common stock of 25% of the members of our board of directors and matters as to which delaware law requires separate class votes). liberty control of us, as well as the existing provisions of our organizational documents and delaware law, may discourage or prevent a change of control of us, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors that could have a material impact on our financial results and could increase the volatility of those results. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. in the event we incur net income in certain jurisdictions but incur losses in other jurisdictions, we generally cannot offset the income from one jurisdiction with the loss from another, which could increase our effective tax rate. furthermore, significant judgment is required to calculate our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. by virtue of our previously filed separate company and consolidated income tax returns with expedia we are routinely under audit by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. additionally, we earn an increasing portion of our income, and accumulate a greater portion of cash flow, in foreign jurisdictions. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates and incremental cash tax payments. in addition, there have been proposals to amend u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact the manner in which u.s. companies are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation will pass, if enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our u.s. tax expense and cash flows. we cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected from copying or use by others, including potential competitors. our websites rely on content, brands and technology, much of which is proprietary. we protect our proprietary content, brands and technology by relying on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents and confidentiality agreements. in connection with our license agreements with third parties, we seek to control access to, and the use and distribution of, proprietary technology, content and brands. even with these precautions, it may be possible for another party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, 25 table of contents content or brands without authorization or to develop similar technology, content or brands independently. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our services are made available, and policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology, content and brands is difficult and expensive. therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology, content and brands adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our business or ability to compete. we cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or infringement of proprietary technology, content or brands. any misappropriation or violation of our rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. furthermore, we may need to go to court or other tribunals to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. these proceedings might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. our failure to protect our intellectual property in a cost-effective or effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to protect our technology, content and brands. we currently license from third parties, and from expedia, some of the technologies, content and brands incorporated into our websites. as we continue to introduce new services that incorporate new technologies, content and brands, we may be required to license additional technology, content or brands. we cannot be sure that such technology, content and brand licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. we are subject to foreign exchange risk. we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the united states. as a result, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates, particularly those related to the euro, british pound sterling, singapore dollar and chinese renminbi. these exposures include, but are not limited to re-measurement gains and losses from changes in the value of foreign denominated assets and liabilities; translation gains and losses on foreign subsidiary financial results that are translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation; and planning risk related to changes in exchange rates between the time we prepare our annual and quarterly forecasts and when actual results occur. depending on the size of the exposures and the relative movements of exchange rates, if we were to choose not to hedge or were to fail to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial statements and financial condition. as seen in some recent periods, in the event of severe volatility in exchange rates the impact of these exposures can increase, and the impact on results of operations can be more pronounced. in addition, the current environment and the increasingly global nature of our business have made hedging these exposures both more complex and costly. we hedge certain short-term foreign currency exposures with the purchase of forward exchange contracts. these hedge contracts only help mitigate the impact of changes in foreign currency rates that occur during the term of the related contract period and carry risks of counter-party failure. there can be no assurance that our hedges will have their intended effects. system interruption and the lack of redundancy in some of our internal information systems may harm our business. we rely on computer systems to deliver content and services. we have experienced and may in the future experience system interruptions that make some or all of these systems unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing content and services to users and third parties. significant interruptions, outages or delays in internal systems, or systems of third parties that we rely upon including multiple co-location providers for data centers and network access, or deterioration in the performance of any such systems, would impair our ability to process transactions or display content and decrease the quality of the services we offer to travelers and users. these interruptions could include security intrusions and attacks on our systems for fraud or service interruption (called denial of service or bot attacks). if we were to experience frequent or persistent system failures, our business, reputations and brand could be harmed. 26 table of contents in addition, we lack backup systems or contingency plans for certain critical aspects of our operations or business processes. many other systems are not fully redundant and their disaster recovery or business continuity planning may not be sufficient. fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of god, computer viruses, electronic intrusion attempts from both external and internal sources and similar events or disruptions may damage or impact or interrupt computer or communications systems or business processes at any time. although we have put measures in place to protect certain portions of our facilities and assets, any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing content and services to users, travelers and/or third parties for a significant period of time. remediation may be costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such costs. moreover, the costs of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved stability and redundancy may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. we process, store and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to risks stemming from possible failure to comply with governmental regulation and other legal obligations and potential liability related to security breaches. we may acquire personal or confidential information from users of our websites and mobile applications. there are numerous laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other consumer data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. we strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. it is possible, however, that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other user data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements against the relevant company by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers and members to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. the regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. the u.s. congress and federal agencies, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, are reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection and use of information concerning consumer behavior on the internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain targeted advertising practices. u.s. courts are also considering the applicability of existing federal and state statutes, including computer trespass and wiretapping laws, to the collection and exchange of information online. in addition, the european union is in the process of proposing reforms to its existing data protection legal framework, which may result in a greater compliance burden for companies, including us, with users in europe and increased costs of compliance. we have collaborations with other online service providers that involve exchanges of user information, and these practices may attract increased regulatory scrutiny in the united states and europe in the future. potential security breaches to our systems, whether resulting from internal or external sources, could significantly harm our business. there can be no guarantee that our existing security measures will prevent all possible security breaches or attacks. a party, whether internal or external, that is able to circumvent our security systems could misappropriate user information or proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. in the past, we have experienced denial-of-service type attacks on our systems that have made portions of our websites unavailable for short periods of time as well as unauthorized access of our systems and data. we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches, and reductions in website availability could cause a loss of substantial business volume during the occurrence of any such incident. because the techniques used to sabotage security change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas 27 table of contents around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage to reputation, exposure to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability due to regulatory penalties and sanctions. security breaches could also cause travelers and potential users to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. failure to adequately protect against attacks or intrusions, whether for our own systems or systems of vendors, could expose us to security breaches that could have an adverse impact on financial performance. acquisitions and investments by us could result in operating and financial difficulties. we have acquired a number of businesses in the past, and our future growth may depend, in part, on future acquisitions, any of which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions that may have a material impact on our business are: use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences; expected and unexpected costs incurred in identifying and pursuing acquisitions, and performing due diligence on potential acquisition targets that may or may not be successful; diversion of management attention or other resources from our existing business; difficulties and expenses in integrating the operations, products, technology, privacy protection systems, information systems or personnel of the acquired company; impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and affiliates of our business and the acquired business; the assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the acquired company; failure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated traffic, revenues, earnings or cash flows or to retain key management or employees; failure to generate adequate returns on acquisitions and investments; entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience and increased complexity in our business; impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from acquisitions; and adverse market reaction to acquisitions. moreover, we rely heavily on the representations and warranties provided to us by the sellers of acquired companies, including as they relate to creation, ownership and rights in intellectual property and compliance with laws and contractual requirements. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. we may be unable to access capital when necessary or desirable. the availability of funds depends in significant measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we have no control. in light of periodic uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, there can be no assurance that sufficient financing will be available on desirable or even any terms to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or extraordinary actions or that counterparties in any such financings would honor their contractual commitments. 28 table of contents furthermore, we are also accumulating a greater portion of our cash flows in foreign jurisdictions than previously and the repatriation of such funds for use in the united states, including for corporate purposes such as acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or debt refinancings, may result in additional u.s. income tax expense. we are currently relying on the controlled company exemption under nasdaq stock market listing rules, pursuant to which controlled companies are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements otherwise applicable under nasdaq listing rules. the nasdaq stock market listing rules exempt controlled companies, or companies of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company, from certain corporate governance requirements, including those requirements that: a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we currently rely on the controlled company exemption from the above requirements. accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other nasdaq-listed companies with respect to corporate governance for so long as we rely on these exemptions from the corporate governance requirements. if we are unable to successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and our stock price and business may be adversely impacted. as a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. additionally, we are required to disclose in our annual reports on form 10-k our management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a registered public accounting firm attestation report on this assessment. if we are not successful in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, there could be inaccuracies or omissions in the consolidated financial information we are required to file with the sec. additionally, even if there are no inaccuracies or omissions, we could be required to publicly disclose the conclusion of our management that our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. these events could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, adversely impact our stock price, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits that could be costly to resolve and distract management attention, limit our ability to access the capital markets or cause our stock to be delisted from the nasdaq global select market or any other securities exchange on which we are then listed. we will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. until recently, we have never operated as a stand-alone public company. as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses and are subject to rules and regulations that regulate corporate governance practices of public companies, including the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as amended, and rules promulgated by nasdaq. we expect that compliance with these public company requirements will make some activities more time consuming and may result in a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities. for example, in 2012 we created new board committees, adopted new internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, and devoted and will continue to devote significant management resources to our sec reporting requirements. 29 table of contents we may need to implement additional systems or transition to other new systems that require new expenditures in order to function effectively as a public company. for example, we must document and test our internal control procedures, our management will need to assess and report on our internal control over financial reporting and our registered public accounting firm will need to issue an opinion on that assessment and the effectiveness of those controls. furthermore, if we identify any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if we or our registered public accounting firm identify a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting), we may be required to devote additional management attention to rectify those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect our reputation or investor perceptions of us. there can be no assurance that our implementation of additional systems or transition to new systems will be successful, or that such implementation or transition will not present unforeseen costs or demands on our management. the price of our common stock may be volatile. there has been a public market for our common stock only since december 2011. the market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including: changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in our industry; developments in administrative proceedings or litigation related to intellectual property rights; changes in governmental regulations; quarterly variations in our or our competitors results of operations; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price. for the period ended december 31, 2012, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the nasdaq global select market was approximately 2.5 million shares. if our existing stockholders or their distributees sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of the common stock could decrease significantly. the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the trading price of our common stock. in addition, certain stockholders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. if liberty or some other stockholder sells substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if there is a perception in the public market that liberty might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. a decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. some of these provisions: authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; and 30 table of contents prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies or calling special stockholder meetings. we are subject to the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. these and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we manage our exposure to these risks through established policies and procedures and by assessing the anticipated near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow and market exposures from changes in interest and foreign exchange rates. interest rates our current exposure to changes in interest rates relate primarily to our investment portfolio and the outstanding principal on our term loan. our interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in 59 table of contents u.s. interest rates and libor. changes in interest rates affect the interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value of those securities, as well as the amount of interest we pay on our outstanding debt. we currently invest our excess cash in cash deposits at major global banks, money market mutual funds and marketable securities. our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. based on our investment positions as of december 31, 2012, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an approximate $2.3 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. as of december 31, 2012, we had $380 million of debt under our term loan, which has a variable rate. the variable interest rate on the term loan is based on current assumptions, leverage and libor rates. based on our current loan balance through december 31, 2012, a 25 basis point change in our interest rate on the term loan would result in an increase or decrease to interest expense of approximately $1 million per annum. we currently do not hedge our interest rate risk; however, we are continually evaluating the interest rate market, and if we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. we did not experience any significant impact from changes in interest rates for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 or 2010. foreign currency exchange rates we conduct business in certain international markets, primarily the european union, the united kingdom, singapore and china. because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign exchange rates. some of our foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their respective local currencies other than the u.s. dollar (primarily in british pound sterling). consequently, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the translation of foreign financial statements into u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency, or functional currency, into u.s. dollars upon consolidation. if the u.s. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income. similarly, our net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income will decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against local currency. the effect of foreign exchange on our business historically has varied from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so, potentially materially. a hypothetical 10% increase of the foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, or weakening of the u.s. dollar, would generate an unrealized gain of approximately $1.8 million related to an increase in our net assets held in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar as of december 31, 2012, which would be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on our consolidated balance sheet. 60 table of contents in addition, foreign exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses. we recognize these transactional gains and losses (primarily euro currency transactions) in our consolidated and combined statements of operations and have recorded foreign exchange losses of $3.2 million, 1.0 million and $1.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, in other, net. we currently manage our exposure to foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures. to the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies, as well as, using derivative financial instruments. we use foreign exchange derivative contracts to manage certain short-term foreign currency risk to try and reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. our objective is to hedge only those currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified and that may result in significant impacts to corporate cash or the consolidated income statement. our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. our current derivative contracts principally address foreign exchange fluctuation risk for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. we account for our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. as of december 31, 2012 we had outstanding forward currency not designated as hedging contracts with a notional value of $2.7 million. these contracts are all short-term in nature. the fair value of these derivatives at december 31, 2012 was a net liability of $0.1 million and was recorded in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. for the year end ended december 31, 2012, $0.1 million of expense was recorded to other, net on our consolidated and combined statement of operations related to outstanding derivative contracts. a hypothetical 10% change of the foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant, would not have a material impact on the fair value of our outstanding derivatives as of december 31, 2011. we did not enter into any derivative instruments for the year ending december 31, 2011 and 2010. refer to note 5 financial instruments in the notes to the consolidated and combined financial statements for further detail on our derivative instruments. as we increase our operations in international markets, our exposure to potentially volatile movements in foreign currency exchange rates increases. the economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. these changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our foreign currency risk strategies. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess 1 table of contents the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on form 10-q for future periods and current reports on form 8-k as we file them with the securities and exchange commission, or the sec, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through form 8-ks or otherwise, for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any responsibility to update any forward-looking statements to reflect changes in underlying assumptions or factors, new information, future events, or otherwise, and you should not rely upon these forward-looking statements after the date of this report. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview tripadvisor is the world largest online travel company. our mission is to help people around the world plan and have the perfect trip by giving them access to the reviews and opinions of the millions of travelers who make up our global online community. tripadvisor aggregates reviews and opinions about destinations, accommodations (including hotels, b&amp;bs, specialty lodging and vacation rentals), restaurants and activities throughout the world. our platform also enables consumers to book hotels, vacation rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and even cruises. tripadvisor was co-founded in february 2000 by stephen kaufer, our current president and chief executive officer. tripadvisor was acquired by iac/interactivecorp, or iac, in april 2004. in august 2005, iac spun-off its portfolio of travel brands, including tripadvisor, into a separate newly-formed delaware corporation, called expedia, inc., or expedia. on december 20, 2011, expedia completed the spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly traded delaware corporation. 2013 highlights following are some business highlights for fiscal 2013 : we introduced hotel metasearch functionality on our tripadvisor-branded websites to provide consumers with real-time online hotel availability and pricing information from multiple sources without requiring the user to visit another website. we launched points of sale in venezuela, peru, chile, and columbia, bringing our total tripadvisor-branded websites to 34, which includes tripadvisor.com in the united states and daodao.com in china. we completed six acquisitions during 2013: tinypost, the developer of a product that enables users to embed text over photos and turn them into stories; jetsetter, a members-only private sale site for hotel bookings; cruisewise, a cruise research and planning site; niumba, a spain-based vacation rental site; gateguru, a mobile app with flight and airport information around the world; and oyster, a hotel review website featuring expert reviews and photos covering approximately 150 cities. we now manage and operate 20 travel media brands in addition to our flagship tripadvisor brand, all of which are connected by the common goal of providing comprehensive travel planning resources across the travel sector. our websites globally reached more than 260 million monthly unique visitors during the year ended december 31, 2013, according to google analytics. at approximately 11% of the world monthly unique visitors in online travel, tripadvisor remains the largest travel website in the world at december 31, 2013 according to comscore media metrix. cumulative downloads of tripadvisor apps including tripadvisor, city guides, seatguru, jetsetter and gateguru reached 82 million and average monthly unique visitors via smartphone and tablet devices grew over 170% year-over-year to approximately 87 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, according to company logs. we feature over 125 million reviews and opinions on more than 775,000 hotels and accommodations and approximately 550,000 vacation rentals as well as more than 2 million restaurants and 400,000 attractions in 139,000 destinations throughout the world. we entered into an agreement with samsung to pre-install tripadvisor market-leading mobile application onto the new samsung galaxy s4. in addition to pre-installing tripadvisor industry-leading app, samsung is using tripadvisor user content to power its travel widget, lock screen slideshow and city information in samsung story album. 3 table of contents we launched our first-ever major onsite affinity partnership with american express in multiple key markets as well as an innovative digital travel magazine created in partnership with axel springer, a leading integrated multimedia company in europe. we released new technology and product initiatives such as native apps on ios and android; tripconnect, a platform that enables independent hoteliers to purchase leads from tripadvisor and delayed ad call functionality for our display-based advertising product, a first for the travel advertising industry, which charges customers only when the ad unit is in a users view. our flagship tripadvisor-branded websites since the initial launch of the u.s.-based tripadvisor.com website in november 2000, tripadvisor-branded websites have been added in the following locations in the languages described below: website target location language launch date tripadvisor.com.ve venezuela spanish september 2013 tripadvisor.com.pe peru spanish september 2013 tripadvisor.cl chile spanish september 2013 tripadvisor.co columbia spanish september 2013 tripadvisor.com.eg egypt arabic june 2011 tripadvisor.com.my malaysia english march 2011 tripadvisor.tw taiwan chinese (traditional) february 2011 tripadvisor.com.ar argentina spanish december 2010 tripadvisor.co.id indonesia bahasa november 2010 tripadvisor.gr greece greek october 2010 tripadvisor.ru russia russian october 2010 th.tripadvisor.com thailand thai august 2010 tripadvisor.co.kr south korea korean august 2010 tripadvisor.com.sg singapore english august 2010 pl.tripadvisor.com poland polish march 2010 no.tripadvisor.com norway norwegian march 2010 tripadvisor.com.au australia english march 2010 tripadvisor.com.tr turkey turkish december 2009 tripadvisor.com.mx mexico spanish december 2009 tripadvisor.dk denmark danish december 2009 tripadvisor.ca canada english august 2009 tripadvisor.se sweden swedish april 2009 tripadvisor.nl netherlands dutch april 2009 daodao.com china chinese (simplified) april 2009 tripadvisor.com.br brazil portuguese april 2009 tripadvisor.jp japan japanese october 2008 tripadvisor.in india english august 2008 tripadvisor.es spain spanish january 2006 tripadvisor.it italy italian january 2006 tripadvisor.de germany german january 2006 tripadvisor.fr france french january 2006 tripadvisor.co.uk united kingdom english november 2005 tripadvisor.ie ireland english november 2005 4 table of contents other travel brands and websites in addition to the flagship tripadvisor-branded websites, we have also acquired and launched numerous other travel brands, all of which are connected by the common goal of providing travelers with valuable resources across the travel sector, including resources for planning your trip as well as making the appropriate booking arrangements. these brands have expanded our reach, product breadth and appeal to domestic and international advertisers. brands acquired include: website date acquired key focus oyster.com october 2013 hotel review website featuring expert reviews and photos covering about 150 cities. gateguru.com june 2013 mobile resource for up-to-date flight and airport information around the world. niumba.com may 2013 a spanish-based vacation rental site, featuring properties listed globally and the world largest collection of spanish vacation rentals. jetsetter.com april 2013 members-only private sale site providing insider access, expert knowledge and exclusive deals for vacations around the world. everytrail.com february 2011 mobile application and website for collecting and sharing geo-tagged user-generated travel content, such as walking tours, road trips, sight-seeing tours and sailing trips. holidaylettings.co.uk june 2010 a leading u.k.-based vacation rental site, featuring residential properties globally listed for rental, enabling users to live like a local while on holiday. kuxun.cn october 2009 travel metasearch engine, much like tripadvisor, operating in china. flipkey.com august 2008 a vacation rental website featuring a large collection of vacation rental guest reviews on residential properties listed for vacation rental around the world. onetime.com june 2008 comparison shopping travel website that allows travel shoppers to conduct itinerary-based, multi-site searches for flights, hotels, cruises, vacations, and car rentals. virtualtourist.com june 2008 travel-oriented community website featuring user-contributed travel guides for locations worldwide. airfarewatchdog.com march 2008 provides up-to-date airline deals that have been researched and verified by a team of dedicated airfare experts. holidaywatchdog.com january 2008 u.k.-based website for traveler reviews on hotels and destinations focusing on the mediterranean. cruisecritic.com may 2007 a community of avid and first-time cruisers who enjoy the fun of planning, researching and sharing their passion for cruising. cruise critic offers objective cruise reviews written by expert travel writers and members. independenttraveler.com may 2007 a traveler exchange that features practical travel resources for a community of international travelers who enjoy the adventure of independent travel. seatguru.com march 2007 features aircraft seat maps, seat reviews, and a color-coded system to identify superior and substandard airline seats. bookingbuddy.com february 2007 travel shopping website that gives travelers easy access to airfare, hotel, car rental, cruise, vacation rental, and vacation deals, plus prices from selected travel sites. 5 table of contents website date acquired key focus smartertravel.com february 2007 one of the largest online travel resources for independent expert advice for the budget-conscious traveler. the smartertravel editorial staff provides advice and analysis to help travelers find the best deals and get the most value from their trips. travelpod.com december 2006 pioneering travel blog website. brands developed internally and launched include: website date launched key focus tingo.com march 2012 the first hotel booking site that automatically rebooks hotel rooms at a lower price if the rate drops and automatically refunds the difference to the travelers credit cards. familyvacationcritic.com june 2009 reviews of family-friendly hotels, resorts, destinations and attractions, written by experienced family travel experts. additional brands which are no longer being developed are as follows: website date acquired/ launched key focus cruisewise.com may 2013 a cruise research and planning site. this business was successfully integrated into our cruise critic travel brand during 2013. tinypost.co march 2013 the developer of a product that enabled users to write over photos and turn them into stories. whereivebeen.com july 2011 website and social platform with a detailed interactive world map that let users share where they have been, lived, and want to go. this website is no longer operating. sniqueaway.com september 2010 u.s.-based members-only flash sale website, developed internally, which provided exclusive limited time access to deals on top hotels at deep discounts. the functionality of this site was successfully integrated into our jetsetter travel brand during 2013. travel-library.com september 2006 travel website with user-generated reviews. our industry we operate in the online advertising sector of the global travel industry. as a result, we are impacted by trends in the global travel industry, the online travel market and online advertising. global travel industry according to the phocuswright, gross bookings in the global travel industry are expected to be greater than $1.3 trillion in 2014. recent historical trends show that, each year, an increasing percentage of global travel spending has been conducted online through supplier websites and online travel agencies. we believe that this trend will continue as online penetration continues to grow, as more consumers gain broadband access to the internet, as smartphone, tablets and other mobile computing devices continue to proliferate, and as travel activity increases along with an expanding middle class in certain developing countries like china and india. online travel market according to the international data corporation, or idc, new media market model, only 26% of the approximately $51 billion that is expected to be spent on travel advertising will be spent online in 2016. we believe that the internet will continue to become even more integral to the travel-planning process due to 6 table of contents increasing worldwide online penetration, particularly given the capabilities that the internet provides travelers, including the ability to refine searches, compare destinations and view real-time pricing. online advertising according to the idc new media market model, the global online advertising market is growing and is projected to exceed $165 billion by 2016, as more and more advertisers continue to shift their spending from offline to online channels, mirroring the trend in consumer media consumption generally. given the size of the online advertising market, we believe that travel providers and travel related advertisers are, and will continue to be, motivated to devote significant resources to advertise their travel products and services. in addition, as more and more travel transactions are conducted online generally, we believe that an increasing amount of travel advertising spending will migrate from traditional offline advertising channels to online advertising opportunities. our key strengths prior to 2000, travel research and planning was largely conducted with the assistance and guidance of a personal travel agent or advice from friends and family. consumers had no single resource to access recent and comprehensive destination, lodging, restaurant and attraction feedback and information. we were founded with the goal of providing an online resource based on user-generated content to prospective travelers. we have democratized the travel research and planning process by using the power of the internet to create transparency in the travel planning process with a comprehensive online resource for travel information. we provide the ability and information to plan and have the perfect trip for any customer with access to the internet, whether through their desktop, smartphone or tablet devices. in order to achieve our goals, we leverage our key assets a robust travel community, rich user-generated content, continuous technological innovation and global reach as follows: robust travel community . we believe that we have the largest breadth of content in our markets, and that, because of this breadth, travelers gravitate to tripadvisor-branded websites to research their travel plans. by providing an interactive forum to share travel experiences, we allow the voice of our large and highly engaged community of travelers to influence decision-making during the travel planning phase. to facilitate planning, we enable consumers to research pricing and availability from third-party travel booking sites. to encourage better travel experiences for consumers and to create a feedback loop between the hospitality industry and individual travelers, we allow hospitality management representatives to respond to reviews of their properties on our website. after completing their trip, consumers can return to our websites to write reviews to give back to the community that helped them plan their trip. through this cycle, more content is generated, which drives community, traffic, loyalty and higher search engine rankings, all of which lead to further content creation. we believe that the volume of reviews generated on tripadvisor-branded websites and the robust feedback loop created on tripadvisor-branded websites provides us with a significant advantage over our competitors. rich user-generated content. we believe that the best travel content comes from the wisdom and insight of a robust community of travelers. we leverage user-generated content to power travel planning by allowing members to create reviews and share opinions on hundreds of thousands of accommodations, destinations, attractions and restaurants. as evidenced by the growth of our business, this type of travel planning has been embraced by travelers. to promote an enthusiastic reviewer community and brand affiliation, we have launched several programs to recognize reviewer contributions, including site badges, helpful vote recognition, and other community-focused features, all of which highlight the current and helpful reviews and opinions available throughout the tripadvisor community and promote brand affiliation. 7 table of contents technology and innovation . we focus heavily on speed-to-market and product innovation in order to create a richer experience for travelers, and our team deploys weekly engineering releases with new products and features. some recent examples of this product innovation include: our development and launch of hotel metasearch functionality, which makes it even easier for users to research and plan their perfect trip on tripadvisor; tripconnect, a platform that enables independent hoteliers to purchase leads from tripadvisor; the release of new native mobile apps on ios and android; and a roll out of a major ipad app refresh. we are also continuing to invest heavily in the rapidly growing mobile channel by providing 80 mobile city guides of the most popular cities globally, adding menus to restaurant pages, displaying bookable tickets to attractions pages, releasing hotel pricing and availability improvements, and integrating facebook login into our industry-leading mobile websites as well as tablet and smartphone applications that are currently available in 21 languages. our ongoing commitment to innovation also extends to content syndication and review collection partnerships, as we leverage our technology and content for the benefit of other websites. in addition, we expend significant effort with respect to manual and electronic fraud detection in order to maintain the quality and authenticity of user reviews, and have clear posting guidelines for user content submission. global reach . we are a global company, both through the reach of our portfolio of branded websites and through our in-market staffing in fifteen countries. as of december 31, 2013, we had tripadvisor branded websites in 34 countries and 21 languages, including a local language website in china under the brand daodao.com. we have over 300 million review translations, and are committed to continuing to improve the in-country user experience and the local content coverage for all of our points-of-sale. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately 871 employees based outside of the united states. we believe that the universally-relevant content and community of our core tripadvisor platform and other brands uniquely position us to appeal to travelers throughout the world. our strategy to expand our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand-building, and relationships with advertisers and other partners. these investments have enabled us to, among other things, aggregate a large base of consumer reviews, in a variety of languages, across our global platform of tripadvisor-branded websites. we plan to continue leveraging these investments through the following: investing in technology. we believe that our ability to continue to innovate by providing additional functionality to our main internet sites, while at the same time continuing to extend that functionality to additional platforms such as smartphones and tablets, will enable us to continue providing an industry-leading user experience. we have a strong culture of speed-to-market with our innovations. by innovating and releasing updates quickly, we believe that we can continue to grow our site visitors, reviews and opinions, increase revenue and effectively compete with our competitors. expanding our social and personalization platform. in addition to member acquisition efforts on social media channels, including facebook, twitter and other social sharing platforms, we intend to continue to expand our social integration and personalization efforts. we believe these initiatives will enable us to continue to grow and maintain engagement with our user base and increase our content. to date, we have leveraged facebook connect to allow users to share their reviews and ratings with their friends and publish their travel activity to their timelines on facebook. we are increasingly able to offer personalized recommendations to users based on friend reviews and ratings as well as information collected about a user preferences in selecting hotels. improving the hotel shopper experience. we continue to invest in user experience enhancements that improve the hotel shopping experience. we have offered a flight metasearch product that displays availability and pricing information from multiple sources since 2009, expanding internationally to 19 points of sale in 2012 and increasing to 29 points of sale as of december 31, 2013. in 2012, we introduced hotel metasearch to our global smartphone traffic and in june 2013, we completed the process of fully implementing hotel metasearch functionality onto our desktop and tablet platforms. in addition to 8 table of contents metasearch, we continue to offer and improve features such as user reviews, photos, mapping, and filtering to assist users in finding the right hotel for their trip. investing in traffic growth. attracting more visitors to our sites is at the core of our strategic plan and we dedicate significant time and financial resources towards amplifying our global brand. we do this through online and offline marketing channels to maximize the number of users who navigate to our site either directly, also known as domain direct traffic, or from the marketing channel directly. offline advertising channels we have used in the past to amplify our brands include: permanent branding campaigns such as tripadvisor-branded travel awards, certificates, stickers and badges and television advertising. online advertising channels we have used in the past to amplify our brand include, but are not limited to: customer relationship management email campaigns, or crm; social networks; organic search through search engine optimization, or seo; paid search through search engine marketing, or sem; and referrals from partners whose sites contain links to tripadvisor content, badges or widgets. at approximately 11% of global online travel uniques, according to comscore media metrix, we believe that we have a large opportunity to continue growing visitors. in order to achieve this objective, we intend to invest in the aforementioned channels, as well as any new channels that we may identify in the future. enhancing international offerings . we are focused on strengthening our broad global footprint as we believe that international markets represent a long-term strategic opportunity for us. we are continuing to improve localization and grow our user base in europe, asia and south america, especially in emerging markets, such as brazil, russia and china. in addition, we currently have two lead product offerings in the chinese market daodao and kuxun both headquartered in beijing. we continue to invest heavily and operate at a loss in the chinese market and will continue to enhance our international offerings. growth through strategic acquisitions . we have a history of successfully acquiring and integrating companies that expand our footprint either geographically or in market sectors that are complementary to our flagship properties. we intend to continue to grow our business and expand our product and service offerings through acquisitions that either complement our existing businesses or provide additional resources, products and/or services that will improve the user experience. our business model our platforms connect users wishing to plan and have the best travel experiences with providers of travel accommodations and travel services around the world. we derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. the remainder of our revenue is generated through a combination of subscription-based offerings, allowing users to book room nights on our transactional sites, and other revenue including content licensing. click-based advertising revenue . our largest source of revenue is click-based advertising, which includes links to our partners booking sites and contextually-relevant branded and unbranded text links. our click-based advertising partners are predominantly online travel agencies and direct suppliers in the hotel, airline and cruise product categories. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc, basis, with payments from advertisers based on the number of users who click on each type of link. most of our click-based advertising contracts can be terminated by the advertisers at will or on short notice. for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we earned $696 million, $588 million and $500 million, respectively, of revenue from click-based advertising. display-based advertising revenue . we earn revenue from a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites through which our advertising partners can promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner. while our display-based advertising clients are predominately direct suppliers in the hotel, airline and cruise categories and online travel agencies, we also accept display advertising from destination marketing organizations, casinos, resorts and attractions, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. we generally sell our display-based advertising on a cost per 9 table of contents thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. our display-based advertising products also include a number of custom-built products including the sponsorship of certain site features and functionality, for example, delayed ad call, which charges customers only when the ad unit is in a users view, as well as certain customized co-branded features. for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we earned $119 million, $94 million and $86 million, respectively, in revenue from display-based advertising. subscription-based, transaction and other revenue . business listings, is a subscription-based advertising product offered to hotels, b&amp;bs and other specialty lodging properties. managed by our tripadvisor for business team, this advertising product is sold for a flat fee per time period and allows subscribers to list a website url, email address and phone number on tripadvisor-branded websites as well as to post special offers for travelers. our vacation rentals business consists of our u.s.-based tripadvisor vacation rentals and flipkey brands as well as our europe-based holiday lettings, and niumba brands. this product is sold to individual vacation property owners and property managers, either as a flat subscription fee per time period or as a free-to-list commission-based model, to list properties on our websites. other revenue consists of making hotel room nights available for booking on our transactional sites, including our jetsetter and tingo brands, as well as content licensing arrangements with third-party sites. for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 we earned $130 million, $81 million and $51 million, respectively, in revenue from subscription-based, transaction and other revenue. strategic relationships click-based advertisers we have click-based advertising relationships with the vast majority of the leading online travel agencies as well as a variety of other travel suppliers pursuant to which these companies purchase traveler leads from us, generally on a cpc basis. for the year ended december 31, 2013, our two most significant advertising customers, expedia and priceline (and their subsidiaries), each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue and combined accounted for 47% of total revenue. these and our other click-based advertising relationships are strategically important to us and most can be terminated by the advertiser at will or on short notice. content-related partnerships we have a content licensing program utilized by over 850 partners across the world, including hotel chains, online travel agents, tourist boards, airlines and media sites. tripadvisor also distributes its content through self-service html widgets, which are used on the websites of hotels, restaurants, attractions and destination marketing organizations. these products, which are available at no cost in the tripadvisor management center, allow businesses and destinations to promote themselves by displaying their tripadvisor ratings, reviews and awards. tripadvisor widgets are presently found on more than 100,000 unique domains around the globe, reaching over 500 million people per month. partners benefit from our user-generated content, such as reviews, ratings, photos and traveler forums. in addition, we power review collection for a growing number of partners, such as accor hotels, wyndham hotel group, best western and easytobook.com, enabling them to proactively collect reviews from their own customers post-stay in their own branded environment. we have also developed partnerships with mobile carriers and device manufacturers. syndication partners we also syndicate our click-based advertising to third-party websites. the largest such syndication relationship is with yahoo! travel guides, pursuant to which we provide show prices advertising on the yahoo! travel guides hotel pages. other syndication partners include bing and axel springer. marketing and promotions we have established widely used and recognized brands through marketing and promotion campaigns. we continue to aggressively promote our brands, particularly our flagship brand tripadvisor. our marketing 10 table of contents programs are intended to build and maintain the value of our brands, promote consumer engagement and contributions, drive qualified clicks to our partners and strategically position our brands in the market. our long-term success depends on our continued ability to maintain and increase the overall number of consumers flowing through our brand in a cost-effective manner, as well as our ability to attract consumers who will share their own content from their trips. our marketing channels include sem and seo. we also reach consumers across the web through our online marketing program, and offline through our more recent offline brand campaigns. we also utilize crm in which we send relevant and engaging traveler communications to our members via email. we have a robust global public relations program that yields placements on a constant basis in major print and online publications. we continue to look for new ways to build brand awareness and expand new channels, which may include traditional media and social media channels including facebook and twitter to deepen customer engagement. we syndicate our content so that other sites can feature tripadvisor branding and content. lastly, marketing and product development initiatives are closely tied. we are constantly creating helpful features and functionality so that our consumers can discover more relevant travel and review content that they want to talk about and share with their friends. operations and technology we have assembled a team of highly skilled software engineers, computer scientists, data scientists, network engineers, and systems engineers whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas, including a wide variety of open source operating systems, databases, languages, analytics, networking, scalable web architecture, operations, and warehousing technologies. we make significant investments in product and feature development, data management, personalization technologies, scalable infrastructures, networking, data warehousing, and search engine technologies. the tripadvisor-branded websites are powered primarily using java programming language. our systems infrastructure, web and database servers for tripadvisor-branded websites are housed at two geographically separate facilities and have multiple communication links as well as continuous monitoring and engineering support. each facility is fully self-sufficient and operational with its own hardware, networking, software, and content, and is structured in an active/passive, fully redundant configuration. substantially all of our software components, data, and content are replicated in multiple datacenters and development centers, as well as being backed up at offsite locations. our systems are monitored and protected though multiple layers of security. several of our individual subsidiaries and businesses, including our subsidiaries in china, have their own data infrastructure and technology teams. widespread adoption of mobile devices such as iphone, android-enabled smart phones and tablets such as the ipad, coupled with the improved web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful apps available on these devices, is driving substantial traffic and commerce activity to mobile platforms. we have seen tremendous growth in the adoption of mobile platforms, as have our advertising partners. advertising opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their small screen sizes. further, given the size and technical limitations of tablets and smartphones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple travel service providers and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel activity. as a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps (as well as brand recognition and loyalty) is becoming increasingly important and we make significant investments in this area. we believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices and mobile applications. if we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile apps are not downloaded and used by travel consumers, we could lose market share to existing or new entrants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely effected. as a result, we have made significant progress creating mobile offerings which have received strong reviews, solid download trends and are driving a material and increasing share of our business. our smartphone monetization strategies are still developing, as smartphone monetization was less than 11 table of contents 20% of desktop monetization of hotel shoppers during the year ended december 31, 2013, while tablets monetize more closely to desktops. competition we face competition for users, advertisers and travel reviews. our primary competitors include large online portals, social networking sites and search engines, such as google, microsoft bing (including bing travel), yahoo! (including yahoo! travel) and baidu. we face competition from online travel agencies (such as expedia and priceline and their respective subsidiaries), as well as wholesalers, tour operators and traditional offline travel agencies. we also compete with a wide range of other companies, including airbnb, inc., ctrip.com international, ltd., holidaycheck ag, homeaway, inc., and yelp, inc. competition for content and travel reviews we are the world largest global platform for travel-related reviews and opinions and we face competition in the travel review space from online travel agencies, such as expedia and priceline and their respective subsidiaries, which solicit reviews from travelers who book travel on their websites. moreover, networks with significant installed user bases such as google (for example, via google + local and google hotel finder) have begun to compete more directly with us by attracting and accumulating user-generated travel reviews and opinions or may pursue the acquisition of travel-related content directly from consumers, and other networks and channels, like facebook, could choose to do the same. competition for users in the competition to attract users, we rely on our ability to acquire traffic through offline brand recognition and brand-direct efforts such as television, email and online search, whether unpaid or paid. unpaid search is sometimes referred to as search engine optimization, or seo, which is the practice of developing websites with relevant and current content that rank well in organic, or unpaid, search engine results. seo can be affected by a number of factors including competitive site content, changes to our website architecture and page designs, changes to search engine ranking algorithms, or changes to display ordering in search engine results such as preferred placement for internal products offered by search engines. sem is a form of internet marketing that involves the promotion of websites by increasing their visibility in search engine results pages through the use of paid placement, contextual advertising, and paid inclusion. sem is a competitive marketplace with competitors continually updating their traffic acquisition strategies and economic models across a large number of keywords and markets. competition for advertisers we compete for travel-related advertising budgets with large, established search engines with significantly greater resources than we have, such as google, bing, and yahoo!, as well as online media companies and ad networks, offline advertising sources, such as television and print media. these competitors have large client bases and significantly greater resources than we have and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating internet traffic are creating inroads into online travel. competition from these parties could cause us to lose advertising customers or shares of advertising expenditures. for example, google has launched hotel finder , a search tool that enables users to search and compare hotel accommodations based on parameters set by users and has, at times, placed the google supplier websites or its own search engine at or near the top of hotel-related search results. in addition, microsoft has launched bing travel, which searches for hotel reservations and air fares online and predicts the best time to purchase them. if google, bing or any other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, or otherwise favor supplier websites or other travel service websites over other online travel sites, including us, it would likely become more difficult and expensive for us to generate traffic to our websites and therefore maintain or grow our market share. 12 table of contents certain of the companies we do business with are also our competitors. the consolidation of our competitors and partners, including expedia (through its investment in trivago) and priceline (through its acquisition of kayak), may affect our competitiveness and partner relationships. as the market evolves for online travel content and the technology supporting it, including new platforms such as smartphone and tablet computing devices, we anticipate that the existing competitive landscape will change and new competitors may emerge. intellectual property our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology and trade secrets, is an important component of our business. we rely on our intellectual property rights in our content, proprietary technology, software code, ratings indexes, databases of reviews and forum content, images, videos, graphics and brands. we have acquired some of our intellectual property rights through licenses and content agreements with third parties. these licenses and agreements may place restrictions on our use of the intellectual property. we protect our intellectual property by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, as well as on international, national, state and common law rights. in addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. we protect our brands by pursuing the trademark registration of our core brands, such as tripadvisor and the owl logo, maintaining our trademark portfolio, securing contractual trademark rights protection when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. we also register copyrights and domain names as deemed appropriate. additionally, we protect our trademarks, domain names and copyrights with an enforcement program and the use of intellectual property licenses. we have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future inventions, as circumstances may warrant. however, many patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us. government regulation we are subject to a number of united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet, many of which are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. these may involve user privacy, libel, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation and online payment services. in particular, we are subject to united states federal and state and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. in addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations is often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate. there are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the united states congress, various state legislative bodies, and foreign governments concerning data protection which could affect us. in addition, we provide advertising data and information and conduct marketing activities that are subject to united states federal and state consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices, domestically and internationally. the united states and european union have begun to adopt legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, and liability for third-party activities. united states federal, state and foreign governments are also considering alternative legislative and regulatory proposals that would increase regulation on internet advertising. it is impossible to predict whether 13 table of contents new taxes or regulations will be imposed on our services, and whether or how we might be affected. increased regulation of the internet could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operational results. segment and geographic areas we have one operating and reportable segment. the segment is determined based on how our chief operating decision maker manages our business, makes operating decisions, evaluates operating performance and allocates resources. the chief operating decision maker for the company is our chief executive officer. the following table presents revenue by geographic area, the united states, the united kingdom and all other countries, based on the geographic location of our websites for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in thousands) revenue united states $ 462,920 $ 386,211 $ 348,066 united kingdom 119,041 110,213 99,646 all other countries 362,700 266,542 189,351 $ 944,661 $ 762,966 $ 637,063 the following table presents property and equipment, net for the united states and all other countries based on the geographic location of the assets for the periods presented: december 31, 2013 2012 (in thousands) property and equipment, net united states $ 67,275 $ 36,255 all other countries 14,253 7,547 $ 81,528 $ 43,802 employees as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately 2,017 employees. of these employees, approximately 1,146 were based in the united states. none of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. we believe that relations with our employees are good. seasonality expenditures by travel advertisers tend to be seasonal. traditionally, our strongest quarter has been the third quarter, which is a key travel research period, with the weakest quarter historically being the fourth quarter. however, adverse economic conditions or continued growth of our international operations with differing holiday peaks may influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. additional information company website and public filings we maintain a corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the sec. 14 table of contents we make available, free of charge through the investor relations section of our website, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a) or section 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. code of ethics we post our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers, senior financial officers and directors, on our corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. our code of business conduct and ethics complies with item 406 of sec regulation s-k and the rules of nasdaq. we intend to disclose any changes to the code that affect the provisions required by item 406 of regulation s-k, and any waivers of the code of ethics for our executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, on our corporate website. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should consider carefully the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations or financial condition. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to continue to increase visitors to our websites and to cost-effectively convert these visitors into repeat users or contributors, our advertising revenue could decline. the primary asset that we use to attract traffic to our websites and convert these visitors into repeat users is the content created by users of our websites, particularly such content volume, unique nature and organization. our success in attracting users depends, in part, upon our continued ability to collect, create, organize and distribute high-quality, commercially valuable content in a cost-effective manner at a scale that connects consumers with content that meets their specific interests and enables them to share and interact with the content and supporting communities. if people do not perceive our products to be useful, reliable and trustworthy, we may not be able to attract or retain users or otherwise maintain or increase the frequency and duration of their engagement. there can be no assurances that we will continue to obtain content in a cost-effective manner or in a manner that timely meets rapidly changing consumer demand. any failure to obtain such content or organize and distribute such content in any manner that will engage users could adversely affect user experiences and reduce traffic driven to our websites, which would make our websites less attractive to advertisers. any change in the cost structure pursuant to which we obtain our content currently, or in travelers relative appreciation of user-based versus expert content or our user-based content versus other sites user-based content, could negatively impact our business and financial performance. we derive substantially all of our revenue from advertising and any significant reduction in spending by advertisers could harm our business. we derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. most of our advertisers can terminate their contracts with us at will or on short notice. our ability to grow advertising revenue with our existing or new advertising partners is dependent in large part on our ability to generate revenue for them. advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in such advertising does not generate sales leads, customers, bookings, or revenue and profit on a cost-effective basis, or if we do not deliver advertisements in an effective manner. if we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our advertisers, they will likely stop placing ads on our websites, which would harm our revenues and business. in addition, we cannot guarantee that our current advertisers will fulfill their obligations under existing contracts, continue to advertise beyond the terms of existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts with us. click-based advertising accounts for the majority of our advertising revenue. any changes we make to our business model may impact our advertising revenue in ways that we do not expect. if our partners do not receive the benefits they expect from their advertising spend with us, they may reduce their spending. in addition, if new, more effective advertising models were to emerge, there can be no assurance that we will have the ability to offer these models, or offer them in an effective manner. to the extent new technology platforms, such as smartphone and tablet computing, begin to take market share from established platforms, there can be no assurance that our existing advertising models will operate successfully on these new platforms, or work as effectively as on the desktop computer platform. furthermore, our cpc pricing for click-based advertising depends, in part, on competition between advertisers. if our large advertisers become less competitive with each other, merge with each other or with our competitors, focus more on per-click profit than on traffic volume, or are able to reduce cpcs, this could have an adverse impact on our cpcs which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 table of contents expenditures by advertisers also tend to be cyclical, subject to variation based on budgetary constraints, project cancellation or delay, and to reflect overall economic conditions and buying patterns. if we are unable to generate advertising revenue due to factors outside of our control, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected. our businesses could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation. we rely heavily on internet search engines such as google on desktop, tablet and mobile devices, including through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites. we obtain a significant amount of traffic via search engines and, therefore, utilize techniques such as seo and sem to improve our placement in relevant search queries. search engines, including google, frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. moreover, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our websites to place lower in search query results. if a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects our paid or unpaid search ranking, or if competitive dynamics impact the effectiveness of seo or sem in a negative manner, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected, potentially to a material extent. furthermore, our failure to successfully manage our seo and sem strategies could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic. in addition, to the extent that google (including google + local and google hotel finder) and bing (including bing travel), or other leading search or metasearch engines that have a significant presence in our key markets, disintermediate online travel agencies or travel content providers by offering comprehensive travel planning or shopping capabilities, or refer those leads to suppliers directly, or to other favored partners, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. for example, during 2011, google completed its acquisition of flight search technology company ita software and separately made changes to its hotel search results, including both expanding and promoting the use of google + local. to the extent these actions have a negative effect on our search traffic, whether on desktop, tablet or mobile devices, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. we rely on a relatively small number of significant advertisers and any reduction in spending by or loss of those advertisers could seriously harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of significant advertisers. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2013, our two most significant advertising customers, expedia and priceline (and their subsidiaries), accounted for a combined 47% of total revenue. if any of our significant advertisers were to cease or significantly curtail advertising on our websites, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenue over a relatively short period of time. our success depends upon the acceptance, and successful measurement, of online advertising as an alternative to offline advertising. we believe that a significant discrepancy exists between the percentage of the advertising market allocated to online advertising and the percentage of consumer time spent on online media consumption as opposed to offline advertising and media consumption. long-term growth of our business will depend heavily on this distinction between online and offline advertising narrowing or being eliminated, which may not happen in a manner or to the extent that we currently expect. we compete with traditional media for advertising dollars, in addition to websites with higher levels of traffic. if online advertising ceases to be an acceptable alternative to offline advertising then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. because the online marketing industry is relatively new and rapidly evolving, it uses different methods than traditional media to gauge its effectiveness. some of our potential customers have little or no experience using 17 table of contents the internet for advertising and marketing purposes and have allocated only limited portions of their advertising and marketing budgets to the internet. the adoption of internet advertising, particularly by those entities that have historically relied upon traditional media for advertising, requires the acceptance of a new way of conducting business, exchanging information and evaluating new advertising and marketing technologies and services. as a result, we are continually evaluating changes to aspects of our business model to keep pace with the expectations of users and advertisers, and these changes may not yield the benefits we expect. in particular, we are dependent on our clients adoption of new metrics to measure the success of online marketing campaigns. we may also experience resistance from traditional advertising agencies who may be advising our clients. any lack of growth in the market for various online advertising models could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if advertisers materially change their transaction attribution models or their return on investment calculations and/or increase their return on investment targets with respect to online advertising in general, or tripadvisor traffic in particular, they might reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our advertising products, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. growth in the use of tripadvisor through smartphones as a substitute for use on personal computers and tablets may negatively affect our revenue and financial results. in general, our content was originally designed for users accessing the internet on a desktop or laptop computer. the number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers, such as smartphones and tablets, has increased substantially in the last few years and we anticipate that the rate of use of smartphone computing devices will continue to grow. although the substantial majority of smartphone users also access and engage with our websites on personal computers and/or tablets, our users could decide to increasingly access our products primarily through smartphone devices. we have developed services and applications to address limitations of these smaller devices and our advertising revenues continue to grow, however, we monetize users of smartphone computing devices at a lower rate compared to users who access our websites through personal computers and the efficacy of the smartphone advertising market and our smartphone monetizing strategies are still developing. additionally, as new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the challenges that we may encounter in developing versions of our offerings for use on these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of our services on such devices. if users continue to increasingly access our smartphone products as a substitute for access through personal computers and/or tablets, and if we are unable to successfully improve monetization strategies for our smartphone users, our revenue and financial results may be negatively affected. declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our businesses and financial performance. our businesses and financial performance are affected by the health of the worldwide travel industry. travel expenditures are sensitive to personal and business discretionary spending levels and tend to decline or grow more slowly during economic downturns. decreased travel expenditures could reduce the demand for our services, thereby causing a reduction in revenue. in 2008, domestic and global economic conditions deteriorated rapidly, resulting in increased unemployment and a reduction in available budgets for both business and leisure travelers, which slowed spending on the services that we provide. the global economy remains in a fragile state and may be adversely impacted by a number of negative economic developments including defaults on government debt, significant increases in fuel and energy costs, tax increases and other matters that could reduce discretionary spending, continued tightening of credit markets, further declines in consumer confidence, and policy missteps. further weakness in the global economy could create uncertainty for travelers and suppliers, and result in reduced spending by advertisers. these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. 18 table of contents we rely on the value of our brand and consumer trust in our brand. if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, or if events occur that damage our reputation and brand, our business may be harmed. we believe that the tripadvisor brand has contributed significantly to our success and that maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to expanding our base of users, creating content and attracting advertisers. as a result, we invest significantly in brand marketing including, most recently, television. we expect these investments to continue, or even increase, as a result of a variety of factors, including increased spending from competitors, the increasing costs of supporting multiple brands, expansion into geographies and products where our brands are less well known, inflation in media pricing, and the continued emergence and relative traffic share growth of search engines as destination sites for travelers. such efforts may not maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective or as efficient as they have been historically. if we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands or to generate demand in a cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. we receive significant media coverage in our various geographic markets. unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our privacy practices, product changes, the accuracy of user-generated content, product quality, litigation or regulatory activity could adversely affect our reputation with our site users and our advertisers. such negative publicity also could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement, and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the market for the travel services we offer is intensely competitive. we face competition from a number of different sources and many of our competitors have significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do and may be able to leverage other aspects of their business to enable them to compete more effectively against us. more specifically: we currently face competition from travel service providers such as major hotel companies, airlines and rental car companies, many of which have their own websites to which they drive business. for example, several major hotel companies launched an online hotel reservation service with a stated goal of driving consumers directly to their brand websites thereby reducing the share receive by online travel agents. they may also attempt to improve their competitive position by offering lower room rates, better room availability or additional features or amenities through this reservation service than are available through services like ours. we currently face competition from online travel agents, such as expedia and priceline (and their subsidiaries), and this competition may increase to the extent that these online travel agents accumulate and develop a comprehensive offering of travel-related reviews and resources. the barriers to entry for these companies may be limited given their access to travel-related information and relationships with consumers. we face increased competition from the large search engines and social networking sites, companies, such as google and facebook, or other companies, which competition will only increase should they chose to compete more directly with us in the travel review space, and create commercially valuable online content at significant scale. for example, google + local, with its aggregated reviews and local recommendations, competes with us and google access to more comprehensive data regarding user search queries through its search algorithms gives it a significant competitive advantage over other companies in the industry, including us. in addition, if significant numbers of users adopt facebook newly released graph search to get travel recommendations, it could have the effect of reducing traffic and user engagement on tripadvisor. we also face competition from travel agencies, wholesalers and travel operators as well as operators of travel industry reservation databases such as galileo, travelport, amadeus and sabre. 19 table of contents in addition, we compete with newspapers, magazines and other traditional media companies that provide offline and online advertising opportunities. for our vacation rental business, we also face competition from several companies, including homeaway and airbnb, some of whom have a larger inventory of rooms available than we do. many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources compared to us and have expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating internet traffic as well as large client bases. we expect to face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the travel advertising market. certain of the companies we do business with, including some of our click-based advertising partners, are also our competitors. the consolidation of our competitors and partners, including expedia (through its investment in trivago) and priceline (through its acquisition of kayak), may affect our relative competitiveness and our partner relationships. competition and consolidation could result in higher traffic acquisition costs, reduced margins on our advertising services, loss of market share, reduced customer traffic to our websites and reduced advertising by travel companies on our websites. for example, google (through its launch of google hotel finder, evolution and expansion of google + local and preferred top placement of places results in google organic travel search results) and microsoft bing (through its launch of bing travel), have each taken steps to appeal more directly to travel customers, which could lead to diversion of customer traffic to their own websites or those of a favored partner, or undermine our ability to obtain prominent placement in paid or unpaid search results at a reasonable cost, or at all. competition in our industry may result in pricing pressure, loss of market share or decreased member engagement, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. as a distributor and host of internet content, we face potential liability and expense for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we distribute or create, or that are accessible via our websites. as a distributor and host of original content and user-generated content, we face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including defamation, libel, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories based on the nature, creation or distribution of this information, and under various laws, including the lanham act, the copyright act, the federal trade commission act, and the digital millennium copyright act. we may also be exposed to similar liability in connection with content that users post to our websites through forums, blogs, comments, and other social media features. in addition, it is possible that visitors to our websites could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance upon information provided via our websites. these claims, whether brought in the united states or abroad, could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. if we become subject to these or similar claims and are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. there is no guarantee that we will avoid future liability and potential expenses for legal claims based on the content available on our websites. should the content distributed through our websites violate the rights of others or otherwise give rise to claims against us, we could be subject to substantial liability, which could have a negative impact on our business and financial performance. loss of trust in our brand would harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends on attracting a large number of users to our websites, and retaining such users, and providing leads and clicks to advertisers. in order to attract and retain users, we must remain a valuable source of travel advice. because of our reliance on user-generated content, we must continually manage and monitor our content and detect incorrect or fraudulent information. for example, hotels, hotel competitors, or others, in an attempt to improperly influence a hotel reviews and rankings, sometimes write and submit fraudulent or otherwise misleading reviews. if a significant amount of inaccurate or fraudulent information were not detected and removed by us in a timely manner, or if a significant amount of information 20 table of contents was deemed by users or the media to be inaccurate or fraudulent, our brand, business and reputation could be harmed. any damage to our reputation could harm our ability to attract and retain users, employees and advertisers, which would adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, significant adverse news reports or media, industry or consumer coverage of us would reflect poorly on our brands and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. we are dependent upon the quality of traffic in our network to provide value to online advertisers, and any failure in our quality control could have a material adverse effect on the value of our websites to our advertisers and adversely affect our revenue. we use technology and processes to monitor the quality of and to identify any anomalous metrics associated with, the internet traffic that we deliver to online advertisers. these metrics may be indicative of low quality clicks such as non-human processes, including robots, spiders or other software; the mechanical automation of clicking; and other types of invalid clicks or click fraud. even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low-quality traffic, or traffic that online advertisers deem to be invalid, will be delivered to such online advertisers. as a result, we may be required to credit amounts owed to us by our advertisers. furthermore, low-quality or invalid traffic may be detrimental to our relationships with advertisers, and could adversely affect our advertising pricing and revenue. we rely on assumptions and estimates and data from third parties to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. certain key metrics, such as the number of our active users, unique visitors, total traffic and number of reviews and opinions, are calculated, in some cases, using internal company data and, in other cases, relying on data from third parties. while these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable periods of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage and user engagement across our large user base around the world. for example, a single person or user may have multiple accounts or browse the internet on multiple browsers, some mobile applications automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no user action and we are not able to capture user information on all of our platforms. as such, the calculations of our active users and unique visitors may not accurately reflect the number of people actually using our platforms. in addition, our measures of user growth and user engagement may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similar metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodologies utilized by us and the third parties for which we rely on this data. we are continually seeking to improve our ability to estimate these key metrics. we regularly review and adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. if our users, advertisers, partners and shareholders do not perceive our metrics to be accurate representations or if we discover material inaccuracies in our user metrics, our reputation may be harmed. in which case, users may not use our products and services and advertisers and partners may be less willing to allocate their budgets to our products and services which could negatively affect our business and operating results. we rely on information technology to operate our business and maintain competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our businesses. we depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems. as our operations grow in size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining or improving the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to competitive service and product offerings. the emergence of alternative platforms such as smartphone and tablet computing devices and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology. new developments in other areas, such as cloud computing, 21 table of contents could also make it easier for competition to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. in addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. if we do not continue to innovate and provide tools and services that are useful to travelers, we may not remain competitive, and our business and financial performance could suffer. our success depends in part on continued innovation to provide features and services that make our websites and smartphone and tablet computing applications useful for travelers. our competitors are continually developing innovations in online travel-related services and features. as a result, we are continually working to improve our business model and user experience in order to drive user traffic and conversion dates. we can give no assurances that the changes we make will yield the benefits we expect and will not have adverse impacts that we did not anticipate. if we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services and quality features that travelers want to use, existing users may become dissatisfied and use a competitor offerings and we may be unable to attract additional users, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. new technologies could block our ads, which would harm our business. technologies have been developed that can block the display of online ads and that provide tools to users to opt out of some web-based advertising products. we derive most of our revenues from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of ads on web pages for our users. as a result, these technologies and tools could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our culture emphasizes rapid innovation and prioritizes user engagement over short-term financial results. we have a culture that encourages rapid development and release of new and improved products, which may at times result in unintended consequences or decisions that are poorly received by users or advertisers. our culture also prioritizes user engagement, or website stickiness, over short-term financial results. we have taken actions in the past and may continue to make product decisions going forward that have the effect of reducing our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions benefit the aggregate user experience and/or conversion rates and cpc pricing, and will thereby improve our financial performance over the long-term. the short-term reductions in revenue or profitability could be more severe than we anticipate. these decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with users and advertisers, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. the online vacation rental market is rapidly evolving and if we fail to predict the manner in which the market develops, our business and prospects may suffer. we offer vacation rental services through our u.s.-based flipkey and european-based holiday lettings and niumba businesses, as well through various partnerships. the online vacation rental market is relatively new and rapidly evolving in many respects, including acceptance of the business model by travelers, property owners and property managers; from a business and marketing perspective as well as the regulatory environment. we operate in various disparate jurisdictions and markets and have limited insight into trends that may develop in those markets and may affect our business. since we began offering such services, there have been and continue to be significant business, marketing and regulatory developments. operating in new and untested jurisdictions requires significant management attention and financial resources. we cannot assure that our expansion efforts will be successful, and the investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth may not produce the desired levels of revenue or profitability. if we fail to attract and maintain a critical mass of vacation rental listings and travelers, our vacation rental marketplaces will become less valuable and this may have a negative impact on our business. in our vacation rental business, revenue is generated when either owners or managers of vacation rental properties pay us fees to list and market vacation rental properties to users who visit the websites comprising our 22 table of contents marketplace or owners and/or travelers pay us fees upon booking a transaction. as a result, our success in this area primarily depends on our ability to attract owners, managers, travelers and advertisers to our marketplace. if property owners and managers do not perceive the benefits of marketing their properties through our websites, or elect to list them with a competitor instead of listing with us, our volume of new listings and listing renewals may suffer. as a result, we may be unable to offer a sufficient supply and variety of vacation properties to attract travelers to our websites. a larger competitor already exists in the vacation rental space, with significantly more users and listed properties, and new competitors with significant financial resources are continually emerging. we may be subject to claims that we violated intellectual property rights of others, which claims can be extremely costly to defend and could require us to pay significant damages and limit our ability to operate. companies in the internet and technology industries, and other patent and trademark holders seeking to profit from royalties in connection with grants of licenses, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. we have received in the past, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties intellectual property rights. there may be intellectual property rights held by others, including patents, copyrighted works and/or trademarks, which cover significant aspects of our technologies or content. any intellectual property claim against us, regardless of merit, could be time consuming and expensive to settle or litigate and could divert management attention and other resources. these claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology or content found to be in violation of another party rights. we might be required or may opt to seek a license for rights to intellectual property held by others, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, or content, which could require significant effort and expense and make us less competitive in the relevant market. any of these results could harm our business and financial performance. we may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. we are party to a term loan in the amount of $400 million, as well as a revolving credit facility of $200 million. these arrangements may limit our ability to secure significant additional financing in the future on favorable terms or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time. our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. in light of periodic uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, there can be no assurance that sufficient financing will be available on desirable or even any terms to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or extraordinary actions or that counterparties in any such financings would honor their contractual commitments. if financing is not available when needed or is not available on favorable terms, we may be unable to issue or develop new or enhanced existing services, complete acquisitions, repurchase equity or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. furthermore, we are also accumulating a greater portion of our cash flows in foreign jurisdictions than previously. the repatriation of such funds for use in the united states, including for corporate purposes such as acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or debt refinancings, may result in additional u.s. income tax expense and higher cost for such capital. 23 table of contents we have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. the face value of our term loan totals $400 million. risks relating to our indebtedness include: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; making it more difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; possibly placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms that we finds acceptable; and exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our outstanding debt is expected to be subject to variable rates of interest. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our term loan and revolving credit facility will allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. the agreements that govern our credit facility contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants. the failure to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. we are party to a credit agreement providing for a revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $200 million and a term of five years, as well as a five-year, $400 million term loan to tripadvisor holdings, llc. the agreements that govern the term loan and revolving credit facility contain various covenants, including those that limit our ability to, among other things: incur indebtedness; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; enter into certain asset sale transactions, including partial or full spin-off transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to optimally operate our business. in addition, our term loan and revolving credit facility require that we meet certain financial tests, including an interest coverage test and a leverage ratio test. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our term loan credit facility may result in an event of default under the agreements governing such facilities. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the debt incurred under thereunder. in addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds (including periodic rollovers of existing borrowings). if the spin-off, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to significant tax liabilities. as a condition to the completion of the spin-off, expedia obtained a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or the irs, along with an opinion of counsel, satisfactory to the expedia board of directors 24 table of contents regarding the qualification of the spin-off, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a) (1) (d) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. the irs private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel were based on, among other things, certain facts, assumptions as well as the accuracy of certain representations, statements and undertakings that expedia and we made to the irs and to counsel. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if we or expedia breach any of the covenants, the irs private letter ruling and the opinions of counsel may be invalid. moreover, the irs private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the spin-off qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. notwithstanding the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel, the irs could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the irs private letter ruling or on which the opinion of counsel was based is false or has been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel that are not covered by any irs ruling. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand, results of operations and business could be harmed. we have experienced rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which places substantial demands on management and our operational infrastructure. we have also consummated a number of acquisitions which have increased our headcount, operations and locations. we intend to make substantial investments in our technology, sales and marketing and community management organizations. we also intend to continue to explore acquisitions. as we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, including employees in international markets, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. if we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and business. our international operations involve additional risks and our exposure to these risks will increase as our business expands globally. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states and intend to continue to expand our international operations. to achieve widespread acceptance in new countries and markets, we must continue to tailor our services and business model to the unique circumstances of such countries and markets, which can be difficult, costly and divert management and personnel resources. failure to adapt practices and models effectively to each country into which we expand could slow our international growth. we have businesses operating in china, which create particular risks and uncertainties relating to the laws in china. we operate in china under the brands daodao.com and kuxun.cn. the success of these businesses, and of any future investments in china, is subject to risks and uncertainties regarding the application, development and interpretation of china laws and regulations. the laws and regulations of china restrict foreign investment in areas including air-ticketing and travel agency services, internet content provision, mobile communication and related businesses. although we have 25 table of contents established effective control of our chinese businesses through a series of agreements, future developments in the interpretation or enforcement of chinese laws and regulations or a dispute relating to these agreements could restrict our ability to operate or restructure these businesses or to engage in strategic transactions. other risks faced by us as a result of our international operations, including our operations in china, include: political instability; threatened or actual acts of terrorism; regulatory requirements, including the foreign corrupt practices act and u.k. bribery act, data privacy requirements, labor laws and anti-competition regulations; ability to comply with additional u.s. laws applicable to u.s. companies operating internationally as well as local laws and regulations; diminished ability to legally enforce contractual rights; increased risk and limits on enforceability of intellectual property rights; possible preferences by local populations for local providers; restrictions on, or adverse consequences related to, the withdrawal of non-u.s. investment and earnings; currency exchange restrictions, particularly conversion of the u.s. dollar into chinese renminbi; restrictions on repatriation of cash as well as restrictions on investments in operations in certain countries; financial risk arising from transactions in multiple currencies; slower adoption of the internet as an advertising, broadcast and commerce medium in certain of those markets as compared to the united states; difficulties in managing staffing and operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences; and uncertainty regarding liability for services, content and intellectual property rights, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of precedent. the loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior corporate management and other key employees. in particular, the contributions of stephen kaufer, our president and chief executive officer, are critical to our overall management. we cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of these individuals, and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. in addition, competition remains intense for well-qualified employees in certain aspects of our business, including software engineers, developers, product management and development personnel, and other technology professionals. our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. if we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining or motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. 26 table of contents changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business or financial performance. our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business, including those relating to the internet and online commerce, internet advertising, consumer protection and privacy. unfavorable changes could decrease demand for products and services, limit marketing methods and capabilities, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. for example, there is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce that may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of products and services. our current business partner arrangements with third parties, including facebook, could be negatively impacted to the extent that more restrictive privacy laws or regulations are enacted, particularly in the united states or european union. in addition, enforcement authorities in the united states continue to rely on their authority under existing consumer protection laws to take action against companies relating to data privacy and security practices. the growth and development of online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws and more aggressive enforcement efforts, which may impose additional burdens on online businesses generally. liberty interactive corporation currently is a controlling shareholder. liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of our stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of our common stock of 25% of the members of our board of directors and matters as to which delaware law requires separate class votes). liberty control of us, as well as the existing provisions of our organizational documents and delaware law, may discourage or prevent a change of control of us, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors that could have a material impact on our financial results and could increase the volatility of those results. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. in the event we incur net income in certain jurisdictions but incur losses in other jurisdictions, we generally cannot offset the income from one jurisdiction with the loss from another, which could increase our effective tax rate. furthermore, significant judgment is required to calculate our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. by virtue of our previously filed separate company and consolidated income tax returns with expedia we are routinely under audit by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. additionally, we earn an increasing portion of our income, and accumulate a greater portion of cash flow, in foreign jurisdictions. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates and incremental cash tax payments. in addition, there have been proposals to amend u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact the manner in which u.s. companies are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation will pass, if enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our u.s. tax expense and cash flows. 27 table of contents we cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected from copying or use by others, including potential competitors. our websites rely on content, brands and technology, much of which is proprietary. we protect our proprietary content, brands and technology by relying on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents and confidentiality agreements. in connection with our license agreements with third parties, we seek to control access to, and the use and distribution of, proprietary technology, content and brands. even with these precautions, it may be possible for another party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, content or brands without authorization or to develop similar technology, content or brands independently. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our services are made available, and policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology, content and brands is difficult and expensive. therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology, content and brands adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our business or ability to compete. we cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or infringement of proprietary technology, content or brands. any misappropriation or violation of our rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. furthermore, we may need to go to court or other tribunals to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. these proceedings might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. our failure to protect our intellectual property in a cost-effective or effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to protect our technology, content and brands. we currently license from third parties and incorporate the technologies and content into our websites. as we continue to introduce new services that incorporate new technologies and content, we may be required to license additional technology, or content. we cannot be sure that such technology or content will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. we are subject to foreign exchange risk. we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the united states. as a result, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates, particularly those related to the euro, british pound sterling, singapore dollar and chinese renminbi. these exposures include, but are not limited to re-measurement gains and losses from changes in the value of foreign denominated assets and liabilities; translation gains and losses on foreign subsidiary financial results that are translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation; and planning risk related to changes in exchange rates between the time we prepare our annual and quarterly forecasts and when actual results occur. depending on the size of the exposures and the relative movements of exchange rates, if we were to choose not to hedge or were to fail to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial statements and financial condition. as seen in some recent periods, in the event of severe volatility in exchange rates the impact of these exposures can increase, and the impact on results of operations can be more pronounced. in addition, the current environment and the increasingly global nature of our business have made hedging these exposures both more complex and costly. we hedge certain short-term foreign currency exposures with the purchase of forward exchange contracts. these hedge contracts only help mitigate the impact of changes in foreign currency rates that occur during the term of the related contract period and carry risks of counter-party failure. there can be no assurance that our hedges will have their intended effects. system interruption and the lack of redundancy in some of our internal information systems may harm our business. we rely on computer systems to deliver content and services. we have experienced and may in the future experience system interruptions that make some or all of these systems unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing content and services to users and third parties. significant interruptions, outages or 28 table of contents delays in internal systems, or systems of third parties that we rely upon including multiple co-location providers for data centers and network access, or deterioration in the performance of any such systems, would impair our ability to process transactions or display content and decrease the quality of the services we offer to travelers and users. these interruptions could include security intrusions and attacks on our systems for fraud or service interruption (called denial of service or bot attacks). if we were to experience frequent or persistent system failures, our business, reputations and brand could be harmed. in addition, we lack backup systems or contingency plans for certain critical aspects of our operations or business processes. many other systems are not fully redundant and their disaster recovery or business continuity planning may not be sufficient. fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of god, computer viruses, electronic intrusion attempts from both external and internal sources and similar events or disruptions may damage or impact or interrupt computer or communications systems or business processes at any time. although we have put measures in place to protect certain portions of our facilities and assets, any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing content and services to users, travelers and/or third parties for a significant period of time. remediation may be costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such costs. moreover, the costs of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved stability and redundancy may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. our processing, storage and use personal information and other data exposes us to risks stemming external and internal security breaches and failure to comply with governmental regulation, which could give rise to liabilities. there are numerous laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other consumer data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. we strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other user data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements that could harm our reputation and cause our customers and members to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, brand, market share and results of operations. the regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. the u.s. congress and federal agencies, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, are reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection and use of information concerning consumer behavior on the internet. u.s. courts are also considering the applicability of existing federal and state statutes, including computer trespass and wiretapping laws, to the collection and exchange of information online. in addition, the european union is in the process of proposing reforms to its existing data protection legal framework, which may result in a greater compliance burden for companies, including us, with users in europe and increased costs of compliance. potential security breaches to our systems, whether resulting from internal or external sources, could significantly harm our business. a party, whether internal or external, that is able to circumvent our security systems could misappropriate user information or proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. in the past, we have experienced denial-of-service type attacks on our systems that have made portions of our websites unavailable for short periods of time as well as unauthorized access of our systems and data. we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems 29 table of contents caused by breaches, and reductions in website availability could cause a loss of substantial business volume during the occurrence of any such incident. because the techniques used to sabotage security change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage to reputation, exposure to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability due to regulatory penalties and sanctions. security breaches could also cause travelers and potential users to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. failure to adequately protect against attacks or intrusions, whether for our own systems or systems of vendors, could expose us to security breaches that could have an adverse impact on financial performance. we also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the internet. much of our business is conducted with third party marketing affiliates, which may generate travel reservations through our infrastructure or through our systems. in addition, we frequently use third parties to process credit card payments. a security breach at such third party could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. in addition, such third parties may not comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to liability. if the businesses we have acquired or invested in do not perform as expected or we are unable to effective integrate acquired businesses, our operating results and prospects could be harmed. we have acquired a number of businesses in the past, and our future growth may depend, in part, on future acquisitions, any of which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions that may have a material impact on our business are: use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences; expected and unexpected costs incurred in identifying and pursuing acquisitions, and performing due diligence on potential acquisition targets that may or may not be successful; diversion of management attention or other resources from our existing business; difficulties and expenses in integrating the operations, products, technology, privacy protection systems, information systems or personnel of the acquired company; impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and affiliates of our business and the acquired business; the assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the acquired company; failure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated traffic, revenues, earnings or cash flows or to retain key management or employees; failure to generate adequate returns on acquisitions and investments; entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience and increased complexity in our business; impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from acquisitions; and adverse market reaction to acquisitions. 30 table of contents moreover, we rely heavily on the representations and warranties provided to us by the sellers of acquired companies, including as they relate to creation, ownership and rights in intellectual property and compliance with laws and contractual requirements. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. we are currently relying on the controlled company exemption under nasdaq stock market listing rules, pursuant to which controlled companies are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements otherwise applicable under nasdaq listing rules. the nasdaq stock market listing rules exempt controlled companies, or companies of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company, from certain corporate governance requirements, including those requirements that: a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we currently rely on the controlled company exemption from the above requirements. accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other nasdaq-listed companies with respect to corporate governance for so long as we rely on these exemptions from the corporate governance requirements. if we are unable to successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and our stock price and business may be adversely impacted. as a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. additionally, we are required to disclose in our annual reports on form 10-k our management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a registered public accounting firm attestation report on this assessment. if we are not successful in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, there could be inaccuracies or omissions in the consolidated financial information we are required to file with the sec. additionally, even if there are no inaccuracies or omissions, we could be required to publicly disclose the conclusion of our management that our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. these events could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, adversely impact our stock price, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits that could be costly to resolve and distract management attention, limit our ability to access the capital markets or cause our stock to be delisted from the nasdaq global select market or any other securities exchange on which we are then listed. the market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may face negative pressure. our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility. the market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this section and other factors beyond our control. factors affecting the trading price of our common stock could include: quarterly variations in our or our competitors results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; failure to meet market expectations; 31 table of contents the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program which could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock; developments in our industry, including changes in governmental regulations; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors related to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price. for the period ended december 31, 2013, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the nasdaq global select market was approximately 1.9 million shares. if our existing stockholders or their distributees sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of the common stock could decrease significantly. the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the trading price of our common stock. in addition, certain stockholders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. if liberty or some other stockholder sells substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if there is a perception in the public market that liberty might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. a decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. some of these provisions: authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; and prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies or calling special stockholder meetings. we are subject to the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. these and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we manage our exposure to these risks through established policies and procedures and by assessing the anticipated near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow and market exposures from changes in interest and foreign exchange rates. 62 table of contents interest rates our current exposure to changes in interest rates relate primarily to our investment portfolio and the outstanding principal on our term loan. our interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in u.s. interest rates and libor. changes in interest rates affect the interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value of those securities, as well as the amount of interest we pay on our outstanding debt. we currently invest our excess cash in cash deposits at major global banks, money market mutual funds and marketable securities. our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of our current investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. based on our investment positions as of december 31, 2013, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an approximate $3.4 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. as of december 31, 2013, we had $340 million of debt under our term loan, which has a variable rate. the variable interest rate on the term loan is based on current assumptions, leverage and libor rates. based on our current loan balance through december 31, 2013, a 25 basis point change in our interest rate on the term loan would result in an increase or decrease to interest expense of approximately $0.9 million per annum. we currently do not hedge our interest rate risk; however, we are continually evaluating the interest rate market, and if we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. we did not experience any significant impact from changes in interest rates for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 or 2011. foreign currency exchange rates we conduct business in certain international markets, primarily the european union, the united kingdom, singapore and china. because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign exchange rates. some of our foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their respective local currencies other than the u.s. dollar (primarily in british pound sterling). consequently, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the translation of foreign financial statements into u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency, or functional currency, into u.s. dollars upon consolidation. if the u.s. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income. similarly, our net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income will decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against local currency. the effect of foreign exchange on our business historically has varied from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so, potentially materially. a hypothetical 10% decrease of the foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, or strengthening of the u.s. dollar, would generate an unrealized loss of approximately $1.6 million related to an decrease in our net assets held in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar as of december 31, 2013, which would be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet. 63 table of contents in addition, foreign exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses. we recognize these transactional gains and losses (primarily euro currency transactions) in our consolidated and combined statements of operations and have recorded foreign exchange losses of $0.2 million, $3.2 million and $1.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, in other, net on our consolidated and combined statements of operations. we currently manage our exposure to foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures. to the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies, as well as, using derivative financial instruments. we use foreign exchange derivative contracts to manage certain short-term foreign currency risk to try and reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. our objective is to hedge only those currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified and that may result in significant impacts to corporate cash or the consolidated statement of operations. our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. our current derivative contracts principally address foreign exchange fluctuation risk for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. we account for our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, we had outstanding forward currency contracts not designated as hedging contracts with a notional value of $5.2 million and $2.7 million. these contracts are all short-term in nature. the fair value of these derivatives at both december 31, 2013 and 2012, represented a net liability of $0.1 million and are recorded in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, $0.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively, of expense was recorded to other, net on our consolidated and combined statements of operations related to derivative contracts. a hypothetical 10% change of the foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant, would not have a material impact on the fair value of our outstanding derivatives as of december 31, 2013 and 2012. we did not enter into any derivative instruments for the year ending december 31, 2011. refer to note 5 financial instruments in the notes to the consolidated and combined financial statements for further detail on our derivative instruments. as we increase our operations in international markets, our exposure to potentially volatile movements in foreign currency exchange rates increases. the economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. these changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our foreign currency risk strategies. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we manage our exposure to these risks through established policies and procedures and by assessing the anticipated near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow and market exposures from changes in interest and foreign exchange rates. interest rates our current exposure to changes in interest rates relate primarily to our investment portfolio and the outstanding principal on our term loan. our interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in u.s. interest rates and libor. changes in interest rates affect the interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value of those securities, as well as the amount of interest we pay on our outstanding debt. we currently invest our excess cash in cash deposits at major global banks, money market mutual funds and marketable securities. our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of our current investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. based on our investment positions as of december 31, 2014, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an approximate $1 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. as of december 31, 2014, we had $300 million of debt under our term loan, which has a variable rate. the variable interest rate on the term loan is based on current assumptions, leverage and libor rates. based on our current loan balance through december 31, 2014, a 25 basis point change in our interest rate on the term loan would result in an increase or decrease to interest expense of approximately $1 million per annum. we currently do not hedge our interest rate risk; however, we are continually evaluating the interest rate market, and if we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. we did not experience any significant impact from changes in interest rates for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 or 2012. foreign currency exchange rates we conduct business in certain international markets, primarily the european union, the united kingdom, singapore, australia and china. because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign exchange rates. some of our foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their respective local currencies other than the u.s. dollar (primarily in british pound sterling). consequently, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the translation of foreign financial statements into u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency, or functional currency, into u.s. dollars upon consolidation. if the u.s. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income. similarly, our net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income will decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against local currency. the effect of foreign exchange on our business historically has varied from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so, potentially materially. a hypothetical 10% decrease of the foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, or strengthening of the u.s. dollar, would generate an unrealized loss of approximately $21 million related to an decrease in our net assets held in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar as of december 31, 2014, which would be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet. in addition, foreign exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses. we recognize these transactional gains and losses (primarily euro currency transactions) in our consolidated 53 statements of operations and have recorded foreign exchange losses of $10 million, $0 million and $3 million for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, in other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. we currently manage our exposure to foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures. to the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies, as well as, using derivative financial instruments. we use foreign exchange derivative contracts to manage certain short-term foreign currency risk to try and reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. our objective is to hedge only those currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified and that may result in significant impacts to our cash or the consolidated statement of operations. our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. our current derivative contracts principally address foreign exchange fluctuation risk for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. we account for our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, we had outstanding forward currency contracts not designated as hedging contracts with a notional value of $20 million and $5 million, respectively. these contracts are all short-term in nature. the fair value of these derivatives at both december 31, 2014 and 2013, were not material and are recorded in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, expense related to our derivatives contracts was recorded to other, net on our consolidated statements of operations and was not material. a hypothetical 10% change of the foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant, would not have a material impact on the fair value of our outstanding derivatives as of december 31, 2014 and 2013. refer to note 5 financial instruments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further detail on our derivative instruments. as we increase our operations in international markets, our exposure to potentially volatile movements in foreign currency exchange rates increases. the economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. these changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our foreign currency risk strategies. 54 ite m 8. financial statements and supplementary data index to financial statements and supplementary data: report of independent registered public accounting firm - kpmg, llp 56 report of independent registered public accounting firm - ernst &amp; young, llp 57 consolidated statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 58 consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 59 consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 60 consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 61 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 62 notes to consolidated financial statements 63 quarterly financial information (unaudited) 97 55 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders tripadvisor, inc.: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2014, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. these consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), tripadvisor, inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso), and our report dated february 17, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. /s/ kpmg llp boston, massachusetts february 17, 2015 56 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and shareholders of tripadvisor, inc.: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of tripadvisor, inc. as of december 31, 2013, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended december 31, 2013. these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of tripadvisor, inc. at december 31, 2013, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended december 31, 2013, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. /s/ ernst &amp; young llp boston, massachusetts february 11, 2014, except for note 2 and note 16, as to which the date is february 17, 2015 57 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of operations (in millions, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 revenue (note 2) $ 1,246 $ 945 $ 763 costs and expenses: cost of revenue (1) 40 18 12 selling and marketing (2) 502 368 266 technology and content (2) 171 131 87 general and administrative (2) 128 98 76 depreciation 47 30 20 amortization of intangible assets 18 6 6 total costs and expenses: 906 651 467 operating income 340 294 296 other income (expense): interest expense (9 ) (10 ) (11 ) interest income and other, net (9 ) - (3 ) total other expense, net (18 ) (10 ) (14 ) income before income taxes 322 284 282 provision for income taxes (96 ) (79 ) (87 ) net income 226 205 195 net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest - - (1 ) net income attributable to tripadvisor, inc. $ 226 $ 205 $ 194 earnings per share attributable to tripadvisor, inc. available to common stockholders (note 2): basic $ 1.58 $ 1.44 $ 1.39 diluted $ 1.55 $ 1.41 $ 1.37 weighted average common shares outstanding (note 2): basic 143 143 139 diluted 146 145 141 (1) excludes amortization as follows: amortization of acquired technology included in amortization of intangibles $ 4 $ 1 $ 1 amortization of website development costs included in depreciation 30 20 13 $ 34 $ 21 $ 14 (2) includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: selling and marketing $ 13 $ 11 $ 5 technology and content $ 27 $ 21 $ 11 general and administrative $ 23 $ 17 $ 14 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 58 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions) year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 net income $ 226 $ 205 $ 195 other comprehensive income (loss): foreign currency translation adjustments (1) (31 ) 1 2 total other comprehensive (loss) income (31 ) 1 2 comprehensive income 195 206 197 less: comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest - - (1 ) comprehensive income attributable to tripadvisor, inc. $ 195 $ 206 $ 196 (1) foreign currency translation adjustments exclude income taxes due to our practice and intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in those operations. see note 14 stockholders' equity . the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 59 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated balance sheets (in millions, except share and per share data) december 31, december 31, 2014 2013 assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents (note 5) $ 455 $ 351 short-term marketable securities (note 5) 108 131 accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $7 and $3 at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013, respectively (note 2) 151 113 prepaid expenses and other current assets 33 35 total current assets 747 630 long-term assets: long-term marketable securities (note 5) 31 188 property and equipment, net (note 6) 195 82 other long-term assets 38 19 intangible assets, net (note 7) 214 52 goodwill (note 7) 734 502 total assets $ 1,959 $ 1,473 liabilities and stockholders' equity current liabilities: accounts payable $ 19 $ 10 deferred merchant payables (note 2) 93 30 deferred revenue 57 44 credit facility borrowings (note 8) 38 28 borrowings, current (note 8) 40 40 taxes payable (note 9) 20 5 accrued expenses and other current liabilities (note 10) 114 86 total current liabilities 381 243 deferred income taxes, net (note 9) 39 13 other long-term liabilities (note 11) 154 52 borrowings, net of current portion (note 8) 260 300 total liabilities 834 608 commitments and contingencies (note 12) stockholders' equity: (note 14) preferred stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 100,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 0 and 0 common stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 1,600,000,000 shares issued: 132,315,465 and 131,537,798 shares outstanding: 130,121,292 and 129,417,089 class b common stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 400,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 12,799,999 and 12,799,999 additional paid-in capital 673 608 retained earnings 628 402 accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (31 ) treasury stock-common stock, at cost, 2,194,173 and 2,120,709 shares (145 ) (145 ) total stockholders' equity 1,125 865 total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 1,959 $ 1,473 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 60 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity (in millions, except share data) accumulated additional other class b paid-in retained comprehensive common stock common stock capital earnings (loss) income treasury stock total shares amount shares amount shares amount balance as of december 31, 2011 120,661,808 $ - 12,799,999 $ - $ 294 $ 3 $ (3 ) $ $ 294 net income attributable to tripadvisor, inc. 194 194 foreign currency translation adjustments 2 2 issuance of common stock related to exercise of options, warrants and vesting of rsus 9,398,330 - 231 231 tax benefits on equity awards, net 4 4 minimum withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (7 ) (7 ) adjustment to the fair value of redeemable noncontrolling interest (15 ) (15 ) reclassification of non-employee equity awards to liability (2 ) (2 ) stock-based compensation 26 26 balance as of december 31, 2012 130,060,138 $ - 12,799,999 $ - $ 531 $ 197 $ (1 ) $ $ 727 net income attributable to tripadvisor, inc. $ 205 205 foreign currency translation adjustments 1 1 issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 1,477,660 $ - 27 27 repurchase of common stock (2,120,709 ) (145 ) (145 ) tax benefits on equity awards, net 12 12 minimum withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (14 ) (14 ) stock-based compensation 52 52 balance as of december 31, 2013 131,537,798 $ - 12,799,999 $ - $ 608 $ 402 $ - (2,120,709 ) $ (145 ) $ 865 net income attributable to tripadvisor, inc. 226 226 foreign currency translation adjustments (31 ) (31 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 777,667 - 3 3 tax benefits on equity awards, net 20 20 minimum withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (33 ) (33 ) fair value of stock options assumed in connection with acquisition 5 5 stock-based compensation 70 70 other (73,464 ) - balance as of december 31, 2014 132,315,465 $ - 12,799,999 $ - $ 673 $ 628 $ (31 ) $ (2,194,173 ) $ (145 ) $ 1,125 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 61 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions) year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 operating activities: net income $ 226 $ 205 $ 195 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development 47 30 20 stock-based compensation expense 63 49 30 amortization of intangible assets 18 6 6 amortization of deferred financing costs 1 1 1 amortization of discounts and premiums on marketable securities, net 3 5 1 deferred tax (benefit) expense (17 ) 5 (5 ) excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation (20 ) (12 ) (3 ) provision (recovery) for doubtful accounts 3 1 (1 ) other, net 11 1 1 changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions: accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets (note 2) (26 ) (12 ) (32 ) accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities 18 17 32 deferred merchant payables (9 ) 17 (1 ) income taxes, net 60 27 (17 ) deferred revenue 9 9 12 net cash provided by operating activities 387 349 239 investing activities: acquisitions, net of cash acquired (331 ) (35 ) (3 ) capital expenditures, including internal-use software and website development (81 ) (55 ) (29 ) purchases of marketable securities (251 ) (432 ) (219 ) sales of marketable securities 336 175 maturities of marketable securities 93 151 distributions proceeds from expedia related to spin-off 7 net cash used in investing activities (234 ) (196 ) (244 ) financing activities: repurchase of common stock (145 ) proceeds from credit facilities 13 10 15 payments to credit facilities (3 ) (15 ) (10 ) principal payments on long-term debt (40 ) (40 ) (20 ) proceeds from exercise of stock options and warrants 3 24 231 payment of minimum withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (33 ) (14 ) (7 ) excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation 20 12 3 payments to purchase subsidiary shares from noncontrolling interest (22 ) payments on construction in-process related to build to suit lease obligation, net (1 ) (2 ) net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (41 ) (170 ) 190 effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (8 ) 1 (1 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 104 (16 ) 184 cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 351 367 183 cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 455 $ 351 $ 367 supplemental disclosure of cash flow information cash paid during the period for income taxes, net of refunds $ 54 $ 50 $ 108 cash paid during the period for interest $ 7 $ 8 $ 10 supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities: capitalization of construction in-process related to build to suit lease obligation $ 52 $ 8 $ capital expenditures incurred but not yet paid primarily related to build to suit lease $ 10 $ $ non-cash fair value increase for redeemable noncontrolling interests $ $ $ 15 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 62 tripadvisor, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements note 1: organization and business description we refer to tripadvisor, inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiaries as tripadvisor, the company, us, we and our in these notes to the consolidated financial statements. during 2011, expedia announced its plan to separate into two independent public companies in order to better achieve certain strategic objectives of its various businesses. on december 20, 2011 expedia completed the spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly traded delaware corporation. we refer to this transaction as the spin-off. tripadvisor's common stock began trading on the nasdaq as an independent public company on december 21, 2011 under the trading symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of 4,799,848 shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates (the stock purchase ). as a result, liberty beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was indirectly acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. ( ltrip ) by means of a spin-off (the liberty spin-off ). in the liberty spin-off, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. as a result of the liberty spin-off, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company and 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor is now held by ltrip. as december 31, 2014, ltrip beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock, which shares constitute 14.0% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 21.7% of the outstanding common stock (calculated in accordance with rule 13d-3). because each share of class b common stock generally is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing approximately 56.6% of our voting power. description of business tripadvisor is an online travel company, empowering users to plan and book the perfect trip. tripadvisor's travel research platform aggregates reviews and opinions of members about accommodations, destinations, activities and attractions, and restaurants, throughout the world so that our users have access to trusted advice wherever their trip takes them. our platform not only helps users plan their trip with our unique user-generated content, but also enables users to compare real-time pricing and availability so that they can book hotels, vacation rentals, flights, activities and attractions, and restaurants. our flagship brand is tripadvisor. tripadvisor-branded websites include tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the website in 45 countries including in china under the brand daodao.com. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we manage and operate 24 other media brands, connected by the common goal of providing comprehensive travel planning resources across the travel sector, which include; www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.everytrail.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.gateguru.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.independenttraveler.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com and www.iens.nl), www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.smartertravel.com, www.tingo.com, www.travelpod.com, www.tripbod.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, www.viator.com, www.virtualtourist.com, and www.kuxun.cn. for further description of our other travel brands see item 1, business . we derive substantially all of our revenue through the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. in addition, we earn revenue from a combination of subscription-based and transaction-based offerings, including: business listings; subscription and commission-based offerings from our vacation rentals products; transaction revenue from selling room nights through our jetsetter and tingo brands; selling destination activities from viator; fulfilling online restaurant reservations through lafourchette; as well as other revenue including content licensing. we have two reportable segments: hotel and other. our other segment consists of the aggregation of three operating segments, which include our vacation rentals, restaurants and attractions businesses. our operating segments are determined based on how our chief operating decision maker manages our business, regularly assesses information and evaluates performance for operating 63 decision-making purposes, including allocation of resources. for further information on our reportable segments see note 16 segment and geographic information, in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. seasonality expenditures by travel advertisers tend to be seasonal. traditionally, our strongest quarter has been the third quarter, which is a key travel research period, with the weakest quarter being the fourth quarter. however, adverse economic conditions or continued growth of our international operations with differing holiday peaks may influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. note 2: significant accounting policies basis of presentation the accompanying consolidated financial statements include tripadvisor, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and entities we control, or in which we have a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary of expected cash profits or losses. we record noncontrolling interest in our consolidated financial statements to recognize the minority ownership interest in our consolidated subsidiaries. noncontrolling interest in the earnings and losses of consolidated subsidiaries represent the share of net income or loss allocated to members or partners in our consolidated entities. we have eliminated significant intercompany transactions and accounts. the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( gaap ). certain of our subsidiaries that operate in china, have variable interests in affiliated entities in china in order to comply with chinese laws and regulations, which restrict foreign investment in internet content provision businesses. although we do not own the capital stock of some of our chinese affiliates, we consolidate their results as we are the primary beneficiary of the cash losses or profits of these variable interest affiliates and have the power to direct the activities of these affiliates. our variable interest entities are not material for all periods presented. accounting estimates we use estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with gaap. our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of our consolidated financial statements. these estimates and assumptions also affect the reported amount of net income or loss during any period. our actual financial results could differ significantly from these estimates. the significant estimates underlying our consolidated financial statements include; (i) recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill; (ii) recoverability and useful life of long-lived assets; (iii) accounting for income taxes; (iv) purchase accounting for business combinations and (v) stock-based compensation. reclassifications as previously disclosed, we no longer consider expedia a related party. certain reclassifications have been made to conform the prior period to the current presentation relating to expedia transactions, which includes the reclassification of revenue from expedia on our statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 of $217 million and $204 million, respectively, to revenue, the reclassification of receivables at december 31, 2013 of $16 million, from expedia, net on our consolidated balance sheets to accounts receivable, as well as operating cash flow reclassifications related to expedia for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 of cash provided of $8 million and cash used of $17 million, respectively, to operating cash flows for accounts receivable on our consolidated statements of cash flows those years. these reclassifications had no net effect on our consolidated financial statements. in addition, as discussed above, we revised our reportable segment structure during the fourth quarter of 2014. consequently all prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current reporting structure, which is reflected in all required segment disclosures made in this form 10-k. these reclassifications had no effect on our consolidated financial statements. all other reclassifications, made to conform the prior period to the current presentation, were not material and had no net effect on our consolidated financial statements. revenue recognition we recognize revenue from our services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably 64 assured. deferred revenue, which primarily relates to our subscription-based and commission based arrangements, is recorded when payments are received in advance of our performance as required by the underlying agreements. click-based advertising . revenue is derived primarily from click-through fees charged to our travel partners for traveler leads sent to the travel partners' website. we record revenue from click-through fees after the traveler makes the click-through to the travel partners' websites. instant booking commission revenue is recorded at the time a traveler books a hotel transaction on our site where we do not assume cancellation risk. in transactions in which we assume cancellation risk, we record revenue when we receive cash from our travel partners, given the current uncertainty of the traveler's stay. we have no post-booking service obligations for instant booking transactions. display-based advertising . we recognize display advertising revenue ratably over the advertising period or upon delivery of advertising impressions, depending on the terms of the advertising contract. subscription-based revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual period over which service is delivered. attractions . we receive cash from the consumer at the time of booking of the destination activity and record these amounts, net of commissions, as deferred merchant payables on our consolidated balance sheet. commission revenue is recorded as deferred revenue at the time of booking and later recognized when the consumer has completed the destination activity or as the consumer's refund privileges lapse. we pay the destination activity operators after the travelers' use. restaurants. we recognize reservation revenues (or per seated diner fees) on a transaction-by-transaction basis as diners are seated by our restaurant customers. subscription-based revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual period over which the service is delivered. vacation rentals. we generate revenue from customers for online advertising listing services related to the listing of their properties for rent on a subscription basis, over a fixed-term, or on a free-to-list option. payments for term-based paid subscriptions received in advance of services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized ratably on a straight-line basis over the listing period. we generate commission revenue from our free-to-list bookings option. we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking, net of commissions, and record as deferred merchant payables on our consolidated balance sheet. commission revenue is recorded as deferred revenue at the time of booking and later recognized when the traveler has completed the stay or as the travelers' refund privileges lapse. we pay the customer or property owner after the travelers' stay. cost of revenue cost of revenue consists of expenses that are directly related or closely correlated to revenue generation, including direct costs, such as ad serving fees, flight search fees, transaction fees and data center costs. in addition, cost of revenue includes personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses for certain customer support personnel who are directly involved in revenue generation. selling and marketing sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of direct costs, including sem and other online traffic acquisition costs, syndication costs and affiliate program commissions, brand advertising, television and other offline advertising, and public relations. in addition, our indirect sales and marketing expense consists of personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation expense and bonuses for sales, sales support, customer support and marketing employees. technology and content technology and content expenses consist of personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries and benefits, stock-based compensation expense and bonuses for salaried employees and contractors engaged in the design, development, testing, content support, and maintenance of our websites and mobile apps. other costs include licensing, maintenance expense, computer supplies, and technology hardware. 65 general and administrative general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel and related overhead costs, including executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions and stock-based compensation as well as professional service fees and other fees including audit, legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including bad debt expense and our charitable foundation costs. interest income and other, net interest income and other, net primarily consists of interest earned and amortization of discounts and premiums on our marketable securities, and net foreign exchange gains and losses. interest expense interest expense primarily consists of interest incurred, commitment fees and debt issuance cost amortization related to our credit agreement and chinese credit facilities. cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities our cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase. our marketable debt and equity securities have been classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. we determine the appropriate classification of our investments at the time of purchase and reevaluate the designations at each balance sheet date. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss and providing liquidity of investments sufficient to meet our operating and capital spending requirements and debt repayments. we classify our marketable debt securities as either short-term or long-term based on each instrument's underlying contractual maturity date and as to whether and when we intend to sell a particular security prior to its maturity date. marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 90 days at the date of purchase and 12 months or less remaining at the balance sheet date will be classified as short-term and marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date will generally be classified as long-term. we classify our marketable equity securities, limited to money market funds and mutual funds, as either short-term or long-term based on the nature of each security and its availability for use in current operations. our marketable debt and equity securities are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a component of stockholders' equity. fair values are determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of each security's cost basis. we may sell certain of our marketable securities prior to their stated maturities for strategic reasons including, but not limited to, anticipation of credit deterioration and liquidity and duration management. the weighted average maturity of our total invested cash shall not exceed 18 months, and no security shall have a final maturity date greater than three years. we continually review our available for sale securities to determine whether a decline in fair value below the carrying value is other than temporary. when evaluating an investment for other-than-temporary impairment, we review factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below its cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and our intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell the investment before recovery of the investment's cost basis. once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. if we do not intend to sell the debt security, but it is probable that we will not collect all amounts due, then only the impairment due to the credit risk would be recognized in earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment would be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. cash consists of cash deposits held in global financial institutions. fair value measurements we apply fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. we measure assets and liabilities at fair value based on the expected exit price, which is the amount that would be received on the sale of an asset or amount paid to transfer a liability, as the case may be, in an orderly transaction between market participants in the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact. as such, fair value may be based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement date. the authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value 66 on either a recurring or nonrecurring basis whereby inputs, used in valuation techniques, are assigned a hierarchical level. the following are the hierarchical levels of inputs to measure fair value: level 1 valuations are based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. level 2 valuations are based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. level 3 valuations are based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. these valuations require significant judgment. derivative financial instruments our goal in managing our foreign exchange risk is to reduce, to the extent practicable, our potential exposure to the changes that exchange rates might have on our earnings, cash flows and financial position. we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. we account for our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. for derivative instruments that hedge the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows that are designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity and reclassified into income in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. the ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument, if any, is recognized in current income. to receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must be highly effective in offsetting changes to expected future cash flows on hedged transactions. for options designated as cash flow hedges, changes in the time value are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are recognized in income. for derivative instruments that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a liability and that are designated as fair value hedges, both the net gain or loss on the derivative instrument as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings in the current period. the net gain or loss on the effective portion of a derivative instrument that is designated as an economic hedge of the foreign currency translation exposure of the net investment in a foreign operation is reported in the same manner as a foreign currency translation adjustment. for forward exchange contracts designated as net investment hedges, we exclude changes in fair value relating to changes in the forward carrying component from its definition of effectiveness. accordingly, any gains or losses related to this component are recognized in current income. we have not entered into any cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges to date as of december 31, 2014. derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting must be adjusted to fair value through current income. in certain circumstances, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts ( forward contracts ) to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. our derivative instruments or forward contracts entered into are not designated as hedges as of december 31, 2014 are disclosed below in note 5 financial instruments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of a given subsidiary are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. accordingly, fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward differences. these differences are not expected to be significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which to date, have generally had maturities at inception of 90 days or less. the net cash received or paid related to our derivative instruments are classified as an operating activity in our consolidated statements of cash flow, which is based on the objective of the derivative instruments. these net cash flows have not been material in any reporting period to date. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts accounts receivable are generally due within 30 days and are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. we record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount. collateral is not required for accounts receivable. we consider accounts outstanding longer than the contractual payment terms as past due. we determine our allowance by considering a number of factors, including the length of time trade accounts receivable are past due, previous loss history, a specific customer's ability to pay its obligations to us, and the condition of the general economy and industry as a whole. 67 the following table presents the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts for the periods presented: december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) allowance for doubtful accounts: balance, beginning of period $ 3 $ 3 $ 5 charges (recoveries) to earnings 3 1 (1 ) write-offs, net of recoveries and other adjustments 1 (1 ) (1 ) balance, end of period $ 7 $ 3 $ 3 property and equipment, including website and software development costs we record property and equipment at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. we capitalize certain costs incurred during the application development stage related to the development of websites and internal use software when it is probable the project will be completed and the software will be used as intended. capitalized costs include internal and external costs, if direct and incremental, and deemed by management to be significant. we expense costs related to the planning and post-implementation phases of software and website development as these costs are incurred. maintenance and enhancement costs (including those costs in the post-implementation stages) are typically expensed as incurred, unless such costs relate to substantial upgrades and enhancements to the website or software resulting in added functionality, in which case the costs are capitalized. we compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which is three to five years for computer equipment, capitalized software and website development, office furniture and other equipment. we depreciate leasehold improvements using the straight-line method, over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the improvement or the remaining term of the lease. leases we lease office space in several countries around the world under non-cancelable lease agreements. we generally lease our office facilities under operating lease agreements. office facilities subject to an operating lease and the related lease payments are not recorded on our balance sheet. the terms of certain lease agreements provide for rental payments on a graduated basis, however, we recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease period in accordance with gaap. any lease incentives are recognized as reductions of rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. the lease term begins on the date we become legally obligated for the rent payments or when we take possession of the office space, whichever is earlier. we establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under lease arrangements where we are considered the owner for accounting purposes only, or build-to-suit leases, to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance under gaap. if we continue to be the deemed owner, for accounting purposes, the facilities are accounted for as financing obligations. we establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to return certain of our leased facilities to their original condition for asset retirement obligations. such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated restoration costs. business combination valuations and recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets goodwill we account for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. we assess goodwill, which is not amortized, for impairment annually as of october 1, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment). goodwill is allocated to our reporting units at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. once goodwill has been allocated to the reporting units, it no longer retains its identification with a particular acquisition and becomes identified with the reporting unit in its entirety. accordingly, the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is available to support the recoverability of its goodwill. 68 in the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we generally first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50%) that the implied fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, we then perform a quantitative assessment and compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value. if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its implied fair value, the goodwill of that reporting unit is potentially impaired and we proceed to step two of the impairment analysis. in step two of the analysis, we will record an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill over its implied fair value should such a circumstance arise. in determining the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations and for determining implied fair values of reporting units in a quantitative goodwill impairment test, we use one of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (including discounted cash flows), the market approach or the cost approach. our significant estimates in those fair value measurements include identifying business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and operating income multiples. further, when measuring fair value based on discounted cash flows, we make assumptions about risk-adjusted discount rates, future price levels, rates of increase in revenue, cost of revenue, and operating expenses, weighted average cost of capital, rates of long-term growth, and income tax rates. valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. we believe that the fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations and impairment tests are based on reasonable assumptions that marketplace participants would use. however, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. as part of our qualitative assessment for our 2014 goodwill impairment analysis on october 1, the factors that we considered included, but were not limited to: (a) changes in macroeconomic conditions in the overall economy and the specific markets in which we operate, (b) our ability to access capital, (c) changes in the online travel industry, (d) changes in the level of competition, (e) comparison of our current financial performance to historical and budgeted results, and (f) changes in excess market capitalization over book value based on our current common stock price and latest unaudited consolidated balance sheet. after considering these factors and the impact that changes in such factors would have on the inputs used in our previous quantitative assessment, we determined that it was more likely than not that goodwill was not impaired. subsequent to the annual impairment test on october 1, 2014, as discussed in note 16 segment and geographic information ," the composition of our operating segments and our reporting units, has been revised. as a result of this revision, we performed an updated goodwill impairment analysis as of december 31, 2014, for each of our four reporting units which we have identified: hotels, vacation rentals, restaurants and attractions. as part of our qualitative assessment for our hotel reporting unit, we considered the same factors used above in our october 1 qualitative assessment. as part of our process for our vacation rentals, restaurants and attractions reporting units, we began our qualitative analysis leveraging quantitative valuations for recent acquisitions in these reporting units, prepared by third party appraisers or management, which were used by management for initial purchase accounting required under gaap. we then considered many of the same qualitative factors used in our october 1, 2014 qualitative assessment and the impact that changes in such factors would have on the inputs previously used in those recent quantitative valuations. after considering this information, we determined that, regarding all reporting units, it was more likely than not that these assets were not impaired at december 31, 2014. indefinite-lived intangible assets intangible assets that have indefinite lives are not amortized and are tested for impairment annually on october 1, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. similar to the qualitative assessment for goodwill, we may assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, we compare the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived asset with its carrying amount. if the carrying value of an individual indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its implied fair value, the individual asset is written down by an amount equal to such excess. the assessment of qualitative factors is optional and at our discretion. we may bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. as part of our qualitative assessment for our 2014 impairment analysis on october 1, the factors that we considered for our indefinite-lived intangible assets included, but were not limited to: (a) changes in macroeconomic conditions in the overall economy and the specific markets in which we operate, (b) our ability to access capital, (c) changes in the online travel industry, (d) changes in the level of competition, (e) comparison of our current financial performance to historical and budgeted results, (f) changes in excess market capitalization over book value based on our current common stock price and latest unaudited consolidated balance sheet, and 69 (g) comparison of the excess of the fair value of our trade names and trademarks to the carrying value of those same assets, using the results of our most recent quantitative assessment. after considering these factors and the impact that changes in such factors would have on the inputs used in our previous quantitative assessment, we determined that it was more likely than not that these assets were not impaired. since the annual impairment test on october 1, 2014, there have been no events or changes in circumstances to indicate any potential impairment to our indefinite lived intangible assets. in the event that future circumstances indicate that our indefinite-lived intangibles are impaired, an impairment charge would be recorded. there were no impairment charges recognized to our consolidated statement of operations during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 related to our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. recoverability of intangible assets with definite lives and other long-lived assets intangible assets with definite lives and other long-lived assets are carried at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of two to twelve years. the straight-line method of amortization is currently used for our definite-lived intangible assets as it approximates, or is our best estimate, of the distribution of the economic use of our identifiable intangible assets. we review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups, including property and equipment, to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. if such facts indicate a potential impairment, we assess the recoverability of the asset by determining if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset over the remaining economic life of the asset. if the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset using appropriate valuation methodologies which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. any impairment would be measured by the amount that the carrying value of such assets exceeds their fair value and would be included in operating income on the consolidated statement of operations. we have not identified any circumstances that would warrant an impairment assessment of any recorded assets in our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2014. income taxes we record income taxes under the asset and liability method. deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. we determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. we consider all relevant factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as assessing available tax planning strategies. we may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. we recognize in our consolidated financial statements the impact of a tax position, if that position is more likely than not to be sustained upon an examination, based on the technical merits of the position. foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses our consolidated financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars. certain of our subsidiaries outside of the united states use the related local currency as their functional currency and not the u.s. dollar. therefore assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate in effect at the applicable reporting date, and the consolidated statements of operations are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the applicable period. the resulting unrealized cumulative translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income(loss) in stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet. 70 we also have subsidiaries that have transactions in foreign currencies other than their functional currency. transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise. subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transaction gains and losses which are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations as unrealized (based on the applicable period-end exchange rate) or realized upon settlement of the transactions, in other, net. accordingly, we have recorded foreign exchange losses of $10 million, $0 million and $3 million for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, in other, net on our consolidated statement of operations. these amounts include gains and losses, realized and unrealized, on foreign currency forward contracts. advertising expense we incur advertising expense, which includes traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, other online and offline (including television) advertising expense, promotions and public relations to promote our brands. we expense the costs associated with communicating the advertisements in the period in which the advertisement takes place. we initially capitalize and then expense the production costs associated with advertisements in the period in which the advertisement first takes place. for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our advertising expense was $341 million, $237 million, and $175 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, we had $5 million and $1 million of prepaid marketing expenses included in prepaid expenses and other current assets. we expect to fully expense our prepaid marketing asset of $5 million as of december 31, 2014 to the consolidated statement of operations during 2015. stock-based compensation stock options. the exercise price for all stock options granted by us to date has been equal to the market price of the underlying shares of common stock at the date of grant. in this regard, when making stock option awards, our practice is to determine the applicable grant date and to specify that the exercise price shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. the estimated grant-date fair value of stock options is calculated using a black-scholes merton option-pricing model ( black-scholes model ). the black-scholes model incorporates assumptions to value stock-based awards, which includes the risk-free rate of return, expected volatility, expected term and expected dividend yield. our risk-free interest rate is based on the rates currently available on zero-coupon u.s. treasury issues, in effect at the time of the grant, whose remaining maturity period most closely approximates the stock option's expected term assumption. we have estimated, to date, the volatility of our common stock by using an average of our historical stock price volatility and of publicly traded companies that we consider peers based on daily price observations. we have estimated our expected term, to date, using the simplified method, as we have not had sufficient historical exercise data on our common stock to date. our expected dividend yield is zero, as we have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date and do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. our stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and generally vest equitably over a four-year requisite service period. we amortize the grant-date fair value of our stock option grants, net of estimated forfeitures, as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. as the company now has three years of post-spin-off equity award activity, beginning in february 2015, we will change our method of estimating our expected term from the simplified method and use historical exercise behavior and expected post-vest termination data. simultaneously, we will also begin estimating our expected volatility by equally weighting the historical volatility and implied volatility on our own stock. historical volatility will be determined using actual daily price observations of our stock price over a period equivalent to or approximate to the expected term of our stock option grants to date. implied volatility represents the volatility of our actively traded options on our stock, with remaining maturities in excess of twelve months and market prices approximate to the exercise prices of the stock option grant. these changes are not expected to materially affect our future consolidated financial statements. restricted stock units. rsus are stock awards that are granted to employees entitling the holder to shares of our common stock as the award vests. rsus are measured at fair value based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock at the date of grant. we amortize the fair value of rsus, net of estimated forfeitures, as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term of generally four years on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. 71 performance-based stock options and rsus vest upon achievement of certain company-based performance conditions and a requisite service period. on the date of grant, the fair value of performance-based award is determined based on the fair value, which is calculated using the same method as our service based stock options and rsus described above. we then assess whether it is probable that the individual performance targets would be achieved. if assessed as probable, compensation expense will be recorded for these awards over the estimated performance period. at each reporting period, we will reassess the probability of achieving the performance targets and the performance period required to meet those targets. the estimation of whether the performance targets will be achieved and of the performance period required to achieve the targets requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, the cumulative effect on current and prior periods of those changes will be recorded in the period estimates are revised, or the change in estimate will be applied prospectively depending on whether the change affects the estimate of total compensation cost to be recognized or merely affects the period over which compensation cost is to be recognized. the ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation expense recognized will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive these awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of our original estimates of fair value. we use historical data to estimate pre-vesting stock option and rsu forfeitures and record share-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. changes in estimated forfeitures are recognized through a cumulative catch-up adjustment in the period of change which also impacts the amount of stock compensation expense to be recognized in future periods. deferred merchant payables we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking related to our vacation rental, attractions and transaction-based businesses and we record these amounts, net of commissions, on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant payables. we pay the hotel, destination activity operators or vacation rental owners after the travelers' use and subsequent billing from the hotel, attraction provider or vacation rental owners. therefore, we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying the hotel, destination activity operator or vacation rental owners, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source or use of cash to us. as long as these businesses grow, we expect that changes in working capital related to these transactions, depending on timing of payments and seasonality, will continue to impact operating cash flows. our deferred merchant payables balance was $93 million and $30 million for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. a payable balance of $76 million was acquired during the year ended december 31, 2014, primarily related to our viator acquisition (see note 3 acquisitions ) and therefore is included within investing activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. credit risk and concentrations financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk, consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, corporate debt securities, foreign exchange contracts, accounts receivable and customer concentrations. we maintain some cash and cash equivalents balances with financial institutions that are in excess of federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits. our cash and cash equivalents are primarily composed of prime institutional money market funds as well as bank account balances primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, euros, british pound sterling, chinese renminbi, australian dollars and singapore dollars. we invest in highly-rated corporate debt securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. our credit risk related to corporate debt securities is also mitigated by the relatively short maturity period required by our investment policy. foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various international financial institutions with high credit standing. our business is also subject to certain risks due to concentrations related to dependence on our relationships with our customers. for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 our two most significant advertising partners, expedia and priceline, each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and combined accounted for 46%, 47% and 48% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. this concentration of revenue is recorded in our hotel segment for these reporting periods. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, expedia accounted for 15% and 14%, respectively, of our total accounts receivable. our overall credit risk related to accounts receivable is also mitigated by the relatively short collection period. 72 contingent liabilities periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. we provide disclosure in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both these conditions if there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred that would be material to the financial statements. significant judgment is required to determine the probability that a liability has been incurred and whether such liability is reasonably estimable. we base accruals made on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from the amounts included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. comprehensive income (loss) comprehensive income (loss) currently consists of net income, cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, and unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, net of tax. basic earnings per share we compute basic earnings per share ( basic eps ) by dividing net income attributable to tripadvisor by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. we compute the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period using the total of common stock and class b common stock outstanding as of the last day of the previous year end reporting period plus the weighted average of any additional shares issued and outstanding less the weighted average of any treasury shares repurchased during the reporting period. diluted earnings per share we compute diluted earnings per share ( diluted eps ) by dividing net income attributable to tripadvisor by the sum of the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. we computed the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period using the sum of (i) the number of shares of common stock and class b common stock used in the basic earnings per share calculation as indicated above, and (ii) if dilutive, the incremental weighted average common stock that we would issue upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common equivalent shares related to stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units using the treasury stock method, and (iii) if dilutive, performance based awards based on the number of shares that would be issuable as of the end of the reporting period assuming the end of the reporting period was also the end of the contingency period. under the treasury stock method, the assumed proceeds calculation includes the actual proceeds to be received from the employee upon exercise, the average unrecognized compensation cost during the period and any tax benefits credited upon exercise to additional paid-in-capital. the treasury stock method assumes that a company uses the proceeds from the exercise of an award to repurchase common stock at the average market price for the period. windfall tax benefits created upon the exercise of an award would be added to assumed proceeds, while shortfalls charged to additional paid-in-capital would be deducted from assumed proceeds. any shortfalls not covered by the windfall tax pool would be charged to the income statement and would be excluded from the calculation of assumed proceeds, if any. 73 below is a reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding in calculating diluted eps (shares in thousands and dollars in millions, except per share amounts) for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 numerator: net income $ 226 $ 205 $ 194 denominator: weighted average shares used to compute basic eps 142,721 142,854 139,462 weighted average effect of dilutive securities: stock options 2,734 2,131 1,207 rsus 345 278 161 stock warrants - - 511 weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps 145,800 145,263 141,341 basic eps $ 1.58 $ 1.44 $ 1.39 diluted eps $ 1.55 $ 1.41 $ 1.37 the following potential common shares related to stock options and rsus were excluded from the calculation of diluted eps because their effect would have been anti-dilutive for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2014(1) 2013(2) 2012(3) stock options 1,450 2,244 3,944 rsus 191 27 21 total 1,641 2,271 3,965 (1) these totals do not include 66,666 performance based options and 44,000 performance based rsus representing the right to acquire 110,666 shares of common stock for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved; therefore, such awards were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. (2) these totals do not include 155,000 performance based options and 44,000 performance based rsus representing the right to acquire 199,000 shares of common stock for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved; therefore, such awards were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. (3) these totals do not include 110,000 performance based options and 200,000 performance based rsus representing the right to acquire 310,000 shares of common stock, respectively, for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved; therefore, such awards were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. the earnings per share amounts are the same for common stock and class b common stock because the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share distributions whether through dividends or in liquidation. new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted revenue from contracts with customers in may 2014, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on revenue from contracts with customers. the new guidance requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. the updated guidance will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in gaap when it becomes effective and permits the use of either a retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2016. we have not yet selected a transition method and we are currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 74 recently adopted accounting pronouncements pushdown accounting in november 2014, the fasb issued new accounting guidance that provides companies with the option to apply pushdown accounting in its separate financial statements upon occurrence of an event in which an acquirer obtains control of the acquired entity. the acquired entity may elect the option to apply pushdown accounting in the reporting period in which the change-in-control event occurs. if pushdown accounting is not applied in the reporting period in which the change-in-control event occurs, an acquired entity will have the option to elect to apply pushdown accounting in a subsequent reporting period as a change in accounting principle under gaap. if pushdown accounting is applied to an individual change-in-control event, that election is irrevocable. this guidance also requires an acquired entity that elects the option to apply pushdown accounting in its separate financial statements to disclose information in the current reporting period that enables users of financial statements to evaluate the effect of pushdown accounting. we have adopted this guidance effective november 18, 2014, as the amendments are effective upon issuance. the adoption of this new guidance did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists in july 2013, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on the presentation of unrecognized tax benefits. the new guidance requires an entity to present an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward, except as follows: to the extent a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward is not available at the reporting date under the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction to settle any additional income taxes that would result from the disallowance of a tax position or the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction does not require the entity to use, and the entity does not intend to use the deferred tax asset for such purpose, then the unrecognized tax benefit should be presented in the financial statements as a liability and should not be combined with deferred tax assets. this guidance was effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2013, with early adoption permitted. accordingly, we adopted these presentation requirements during the first quarter of 2014. the adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. note 3: acquisitions we acquired a number of businesses during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. these business combinations were accounted for as purchases of businesses under the acquisition method. the fair value of purchase consideration has been allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date, with the remaining unallocated amount recorded as goodwill. acquired goodwill represents the premium we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. we paid a premium in these transactions for a number of reasons, but, primarily it was attributable to expected operational synergies, the assembled workforces, and the future development initiatives of the assembled workforces. the results of each of these acquired businesses have been included in the consolidated financial statements beginning on the respective acquisition dates. pro-forma results of operations for all of these acquisitions have not been presented as the financial impact to our consolidated financial statements, both individually and in aggregate, are not material. for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were $4 million and $2 million, respectively, and are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. acquisition-related expenses were not material for the year ended december 31, 2012. 2014 acquisitions in august 2014, we completed our acquisition of viator, inc. ( viator ). viator, which is headquartered in san francisco and has offices in las vegas, london, and sydney, is a leading resource for researching and booking destination activities around the world. our total purchase price was $192 million, for all the outstanding shares of capital stock of viator, consisting of approximately $187 million in cash consideration (or $132 million, net of cash acquired from viator of $55 million) and the value of certain viator stock options that were assumed. we issued 100,595 tripadvisor stock options related to the assumed viator stock options. the fair value of the earned portion of assumed stock options was $5 million and is included in the purchase price, with the remaining fair value of $3 million resulting in post-acquisition compensation expense that will generally be recognized ratably over three years from the date of acquisition. the total cash consideration was paid from one of our u.s. based subsidiaries. during the year ended december 31, 2014, we completed six other acquisitions for a total purchase price consideration of $208 million, for which the company paid total cash consideration of $199 million, which is net of cash acquired of $7 million and approximately $2 million in holdbacks for general representations and warranties of the respective sellers. the cash consideration was 75 paid primarily from our international subsidiaries. we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of capital stock for the following companies; vacation home rentals, a u.s.-based vacation rental website featuring more than 14,000 properties around the world purchased in may 2014; london-based tripbod, a travel community that helps connect travelers to local experts purchased in may 2014; lafourchette, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in europe purchased in may 2014; mytable and restopolis, both providers of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in italy purchased in october 2014; and iens, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in the netherlands purchased in december 2014. the purchase price consideration is subject to an adjustment based on the finalization of working capital adjustments for restopolis and iens, as of december 31, 2014. during 2014, all 2014 acquisitions accounted for approximately 3% of consolidated revenue for the year. the purchase price allocation of our 2014 acquisitions, is preliminary and subject to revision as more information becomes available, but in any case will not be revised beyond twelve months after the acquisition date and any change to the fair value of assets acquired or liabilities assumed will lead to a corresponding change to the purchase price allocable to goodwill on a retroactive basis. the primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized are related to the fair values of intangibles assets and net assets for iens, net assets of viator, and income tax related balances for all 2014 acquisitions. acquired goodwill related to our 2014 acquisitions was allocated to our other segment. the following table presents the purchase price allocations initially recorded on our consolidated balance sheet for all 2014 acquisitions (in millions): total goodwill (1) $ 253 intangible assets (2) 194 net tangible assets (liabilities) (3) (7 ) deferred tax liabilities, net (40 ) total purchase price consideration (4) $ 400 (1) goodwill in the amount of $5 million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2014 were comprised of trade names of $44 million with a weighted average life of 10.0 years, customer lists and supplier relationships of $82 million with a weighted average life of 7.2 years, subscriber relationships of $25 million with a weighted average life of 6.0 years and developed technology and other of $43 million with a weighted average life of 4.9 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of the companies during 2014 was 7.2 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) includes assets acquired, including cash of $62 million and accounts receivable of $25 million and liabilities assumed, including deferred merchant payables of $76 million, accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $15 million and deferred revenue of $5 million which reflect their respective fair values at acquisition date. (4) subject to adjustment based on (i) final working capital adjustment calculations to be determined for restopolis and iens, and (ii) indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of the acquired company stockholders. 2013 acquisitions during the year ended december 31, 2013, we completed six acquisitions for a total purchase price consideration of $40 million, for which the company paid total cash consideration of $35 million, net of cash acquired of $3 million and approximately $2 million in holdbacks for general representations and warranties of the respective sellers, of which $1 million was paid in 2014. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our international subsidiaries. we acquired tinypost, the developer of a product that enables users to write over photos and turn them into stories, jetsetter, a members-only private sale site for hotel bookings; cruisewise, a cruise research and planning site; niumba, a spain-based vacation rental site; gateguru, a mobile app with flight and airport information around the world; oyster, a hotel review website featuring expert reviews and photos around the world, all of which complemented our existing brands in those areas of the travel ecosystem. the purchase price allocation for our 2013 acquisitions is considered final at december 31, 2014. 76 the following table presents the purchase price allocation recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value for all 2013 acquisitions (in millions): total goodwill (1) $ 30 intangible assets (2) 19 net liabilities assumed (3) (10 ) deferred tax assets 1 total purchase price consideration (4) $ 40 (1) goodwill in the amount of $14 million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2013 were comprised of trade names of $8 million, subscriber relationships of $8 million, and developed technology and other of $3 million. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of the companies during 2013 was 8.0 years, which is being amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) includes assets acquired, including cash of $3 million and accounts receivable of $2 million and liabilities assumed, including accounts payables of $11 million, accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $1 million and deferred revenue of $3 million which reflected their respective fair values at acquisition date. (4) subject to adjustment based on (i) indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of the acquired company stockholders. 2012 acquisitions we purchased a travel media company for approximately $3 million. the purchase price consideration was primarily allocated to goodwill, which is not tax deductible. the purchase price and purchase price allocation is final for this acquisition at december 31, 2014. we also paid $22 million for the remaining noncontrolling interest subsidiary shares related to a 2008 acquisition, which brought our ownership to 100%. this amount is included in financing activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended december 31, 2012. note 4: stock based awards and other equity instruments stock-based compensation expense the following table presents the amount of stock-based compensation related to stock-based awards, primarily stock options and rsus, on our consolidated statements of operations during the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) selling and marketing $ 13 $ 11 $ 5 technology and content 27 21 11 general and administrative 23 17 14 total stock-based compensation 63 49 30 income tax benefit from stock-based compensation (24 ) (18 ) (10 ) total stock-based compensation, net of tax effect $ 39 $ 31 $ 20 during the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, we capitalized $8 million and $5 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation as website development costs. this amount was immaterial for the year ended december 31, 2012. stock and incentive plan on december 20, 2011, our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan became effective and we filed post-effective amendment no. 1 on form s-8 to registration statement on form s-4 (file no. 333-178637) (the prior registration statement ) with the securities and exchange commission (the commission ), registering a total of 17,500,000 shares of our common stock, of which 17,400,000 shares were issuable in connection with grants of equity-based awards under our 2011 incentive plan (7,400,000 of which 77 shares were originally registered on the form s-4 and 10,000,000 of which shares were first registered on the prior registration statement) and 100,000 shares were issuable under our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (refer to note 13 employee benefit plans below for information on our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors). at our annual meeting of stockholders held on june 28, 2013 (the annual meeting ), our stockholders approved an amendment to our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan to, among other things, increase the aggregate number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance thereunder by 15,000,000 shares. we refer to our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan, as amended by the amendment as the 2011 incentive plan. a summary of the material terms of the 2011 incentive plan can be found in proposal 3: approval of the 2011 stock and annual incentive plan, as amended in our proxy statement for the annual meeting. on september 12, 2014, we filed a registration statement on form s-8 with respect to up to 100,595 shares of our common stock for issuance under the viator, inc. 2010 stock incentive plan, as amended (the viator plan ). pursuant to the amended and restated agreement and plan of merger among tripadvisor llc; vineyard acquisition corporation and viator, inc., dated as of july 24, 2014 (the merger agreement ), vineyard acquisition corporation merged with and into viator, inc. with viator, inc. surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company. in accordance with the merger agreement, we assumed certain outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock of viator granted under the viator plan (the assumed options ). as a result of this assumption, the assumed options were converted into options to purchase shares of our common stock. we do not intend to grant new equity or equity-based awards under the viator plan. pursuant to the 2011 annual incentive plan, we may, among other things, grant rsus, restricted stock, stock options and other stock-based awards to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. the summary of the material terms of the 2011 incentive plan is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the 2011 incentive plan previously filed. as of december 31, 2014, the total number of shares available for issuance under the 2011 incentive plan is 17,691,977 shares. all shares of common stock issued in respect of the exercise of options or other equity awards since spin-off have been issued from authorized, but unissued common stock. stock based award activity and valuation 2014 stock option activity during the year ended december 31, 2014, we have issued 679,568 of primarily service based non-qualified stock options primarily from the 2011 incentive plan. these stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and generally vest equitably over a four-year requisite service period. a summary of our stock option activity is presented below: weighted weighted average average exercise remaining aggregate options price per contractual intrinsic outstanding share life value (in thousands) (in years) (in millions) options outstanding at december 31, 2013 9,470 40.18 assumed options from acquisition 101 16.36 granted 579 95.87 exercised (1) (1,202 ) 32.87 cancelled or expired (297 ) 45.40 options outstanding at december 31, 2014 8,651 $ 44.47 5.0 $ 273 exercisable as of december 31, 2014 4,080 $ 32.05 2.7 $ 174 vested and expected to vest after december 31, 2014 8,445 $ 44.11 4.9 $ 269 (1) inclusive of 628,010 options, which were not converted into shares due to net share settlement in order to cover the aggregate exercise price and the minimum amount of required employee withholding taxes. potential shares which had been convertible under stock options that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2011 incentive plan and can be reissued by the company. we began net-share settling the majority of our stock option exercises during the third quarter of 2013. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. 78 aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the closing stock price of our common stock and the exercise price of outstanding, in-the-money options. our closing stock price as reported on nasdaq as of december 31, 2014 was $74.66. the total intrinsic value of stock options exercised for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 were $75 million, $58 million, and $25 million, respectively. the fair value of stock option grants under the 2011 plan and viator plan has been estimated at the date of grant using the black scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for the periods presented: december 31, 2014 2013 2012 risk free interest rate 1.79 % 1.41 % 1.03 % expected term (in years) 5.80 6.06 6.21 expected volatility 44.04 % 50.78 % 53.46 % expected dividend yield % % % the weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted, excluding assumed acquisition-related options, was $46.65, $28.30, and $20.36 for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the weighted-average grant date fair value of assumed acquisition-related options was $80.31 for the year ended december 31, 2014. there were no assumed acquisition-related options granted for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012. the total fair value of stock options vested for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 were $34 million, $27 million, and $10 million, respectively. 2014 rsu activity during the year ended december 31, 2014, we issued 752,460 rsus under the 2011 incentive plan for which the fair value was measured based on the quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant. these rsus generally vest over a four-year requisite service period. the following table presents a summary of our rsu activity: weighted average grant- aggregate rsus date fair intrinsic outstanding value per share value (in thousands) (in millions) unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2013 1,135 49.64 granted 752 93.36 vested and released (1) (307 ) 46.78 cancelled (132 ) 67.50 unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2014 1,448 $ 71.33 $ 108 (1) inclusive of 103,641 rsus withheld to satisfy employee minimum tax withholding requirements due to net share settlement. potential shares which had been convertible under rsus that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2011 plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. other equity activity upon spin-off, we entered into a warrant agreement (the warrant agreement ) with mellon investor services llc and issued warrants exercisable for tripadvisor common stock in respect of previously outstanding warrants exercisable for expedia common stock that were adjusted on account of expedia's reverse stock split and the spin-off. in total, at spin-off, the warrants could have been converted into a maximum of 8,046,698 shares of our common stock without any further adjustments to the warrant agreement and had an expiration date of may 7, 2012. 79 one tranche of warrants (issued in respect of expedia warrants that had featured an exercise price of $12.23 per warrant prior to adjustment) were exercisable for 0.25 (one-quarter) of a share of tripadvisor common stock at an exercise price equal to $6.48 per warrant, and the other tranche of warrants (issued in respect of expedia warrants that had featured an exercise price of $14.45 per warrant prior to adjustment) were exercisable for 0.25 (one-quarter) of a share of tripadvisor common stock at an exercise price equal to $7.66 per warrant. the exercise price could have been paid in cash or via cashless exercise as set forth in the warrant agreement. during the year ended december 31, 2012, and prior to the expiration date, there were a total of 32,186,791 warrants exercised which resulted in a total of 7,952,456 shares of our common stock being issued during that period, which included 31,641,337 warrants for which the exercise price was paid in cash at a weighted average price of $27.11. we received total exercise proceeds of $215 million related to these warrant exercises, which is reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statement of cash flows. in addition there were 545,454 cashless warrants exercised with a weighted average exercise price of $25.92 of which we did not receive any exercise proceeds. we currently have no outstanding warrants remaining which could be convertible to shares of our common stock. unrecognized stock-based compensation a summary of our remaining unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, and the weighted average remaining amortization period at december 31, 2014 related to our non-vested stock options and rsu awards is presented below (in millions, except per year information): stock options rsus unrecognized compensation expense (net of forfeitures) $ 84 $ 70 weighted average period remaining (in years) 2.7 2.9 note 5: financial instruments cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities the following tables show our cash and available-for-sale securities' amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value by significant investment category recorded as cash and cash equivalents or short and long-term marketable securities as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 (in millions): december 31, 2014 cash and short-term long-term amortized unrealized unrealized fair cash marketable marketable cost gains losses value equivalents securities securities cash $ 447 $ $ $ 447 $ 447 $ $ level 1: money market funds 8 8 8 level 2: u.s. agency securities 38 38 35 3 certificates of deposit 8 8 8 commercial paper 1 1 1 corporate debt securities 92 92 64 28 subtotal 139 139 108 31 total $ 594 $ $ $ 594 $ 455 $ 108 $ 31 80 december 31, 2013 cash and short-term long-term amortized unrealized unrealized fair cash marketable marketable cost gains losses value equivalents securities securities cash $ 195 $ $ $ 195 $ 195 $ $ level 1: money market funds 156 156 156 level 2: u.s. agency securities 37 37 14 23 certificates of deposit 23 23 16 7 commercial paper 5 5 5 corporate debt securities 254 254 96 158 subtotal 319 319 131 188 total $ 670 $ $ $ 670 $ 351 $ 131 $ 188 our cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand in global financial institutions, money market funds and marketable securities, with maturities of 90 days or less at the date purchased. the remaining maturities of our long-term marketable securities range from one to three years and our short-term marketable securities include maturities that were greater than 90 days at the date purchased and have 12 months or less remaining at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. we classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities within level 1 and level 2 as we value our cash equivalents and marketable securities using quoted market prices (level 1) or alternative pricing sources (level 2). the valuation technique we used to measure the fair value of money market funds were derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. fair values for level 2 investments are considered level 2 valuations because they are obtained from independent pricing sources for identical or comparable instruments, rather than direct observations of quoted prices in active markets. our procedures include controls to ensure that appropriate fair values are recorded, including comparing the fair values obtained from our independent pricing services against fair values obtained from another independent source. there were no material realized gains or losses related to sales of our marketable securities for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. as of december 31, 2014, we have marketable securities with a total fair value of $68 million currently in an unrealized loss position. the gross unrealized loss amount was not material at december 31, 2014. we consider the declines in market value of our marketable securities investment portfolio to be temporary in nature and do not consider any of our investments other-than-temporarily impaired. during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we did not recognize any impairment charges. we also did not have any material investments in marketable securities that were in a continuous unrealized loss position for 12 months or greater at december 31, 2014 or 2013. derivative financial instruments our current forward contracts are not designated as hedges and have current maturities of less than 90 days. consequently, any gain or loss resulting from the change in fair value was recognized in our consolidated statement of operations. all gains and losses recorded to other, net on the consolidated statement of operations for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 were not material. the following table shows the notional principal amounts of our outstanding derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments for the periods presented: december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 (in millions) foreign exchange-forward contracts (1)(2) $ 20 $ 5 (1) derivative contracts address foreign exchange fluctuations for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. (2) the fair value of our derivatives are not material for all periods presented and are reported as liabilities in accrued and other current liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. we measure the fair value of our outstanding or unsettled derivatives using level 2 fair value inputs, as we use a pricing model that takes into account the contract terms as well as current foreign currency exchange rates in active markets. 81 concentration of credit risk counterparties to currency exchange derivatives consist of major international financial institutions. we monitor our positions and the credit ratings of the counterparties involved and, by policy limits, the amount of credit exposure to any one party. while we may be exposed to potential losses due to the credit risk of non-performance by these counterparties, losses are not anticipated and any credit risk amounts associated with our outstanding or unsettled derivative instruments are deemed to be not material for any period presented. other financial instruments other financial instruments not measured at fair value on a recurring basis include trade receivables, trade payables, deferred merchant payables, short-term debt, accrued and other current liabilities and long-term debt. with the exception of long-term debt, the carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments as reported on the consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013. the carrying value of the long-term borrowings outstanding on our credit agreement bears interest at a variable rate and therefore is also considered to approximate fair value. we did not have any level 3 assets or liabilities at december 31, 2014 or 2013. note 6: property and equipment, net property and equipment consists of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 (in millions) capitalized software and website development $ 104 $ 73 leasehold improvements 40 22 computer equipment 31 21 furniture, office equipment and other 11 6 186 122 less: accumulated depreciation (77 ) (48 ) construction in progress (1) 86 8 property and equipment, net $ 195 $ 82 (1) we capitalize construction in progress for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner, for accounting purposes only, during the construction period. these amounts represent construction costs to date incurred by the landlord and the company related to our future corporate headquarters in needham, ma. during the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, we capitalized $52 million and $8 million, respectively, in non-cash construction costs which were incurred by the landlord, with a corresponding liability recorded in other long-term liabilities, and in addition, we capitalized $26 million in normal and structural tenant improvements on our consolidated balance sheet incurred by the company. refer to note 12 commitments and contingencies , for additional information on our future corporate headquarters lease. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, our recorded capitalized software and website development costs, net of accumulated amortization, were $61 million and $46 million, respectively. for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, we capitalized $47 million and $38 million, respectively, related to software and website development costs. for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we recorded amortization of capitalized software and website development costs of $30 million, $20 million and $13 million, respectively, which is included in depreciation expense on our consolidated statements of operations for those years. during the year ended december 31, 2014, we retired and disposed of property and equipment, primarily capitalized software and website development, which were no longer in use with a total cost of $22 million and associated accumulated depreciation of $20 million, resulting in a loss of $2 million included in operating income on our consolidated statements of operations. 82 note 7: goodwill and intangible assets, net the following table summarizes our goodwill activity by segment for the periods presented: tripadvisor hotel other consolidated (in millions) balance as of december 31, 2012 $ 472 $ - $ - $ 472 additions (1) 30 - - 30 balance as of december 31, 2013 $ 502 $ - $ - $ 502 additions (1) 253 - - 253 other adjustments (2) (21 ) - - (21 ) allocation to new segments (3) (734 ) 442 292 - ending balance as of december 31, 2014 $ - $ 442 $ 292 $ 734 (1) the additions to goodwill relate to our business acquisitions. see note 3 acquisitions , for further information. (2) primarily related to impact of changes in foreign exchange rates to goodwill. (3) see note 16 segments and geographic information for information on our reporting segment changes in the fourth quarter of 2014. intangible assets, which were acquired in business combinations and recorded at fair value on the date of purchase, consist of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2014 2013 (in millions) intangible assets with definite lives $ 202 $ 36 less: accumulated amortization (18 ) (14 ) intangible assets with definite lives, net 184 22 intangible assets with indefinite lives 30 30 $ 214 $ 52 amortization expense was $18 million, $6 million, and $6 million, respectively, for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. our indefinite-lived assets relate to trade names and trademarks. refer to note 2 significant accounting policies above for a discussion of our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment assessment. the following table presents the components of our intangible assets with definite lives for the periods presented: december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 weighted average gross net gross net remaining life carrying accumulated carrying carrying accumulated carrying (in years) amount amortization amount amount amortization amount (in millions) (in millions) trade names and trademarks 9.4 $ 52 $ (5 ) $ 47 $ 18 $ (7 ) $ 11 customer lists and supplier relationships 6.8 77 (5 ) 72 - - - subscriber relationships 5.5 31 (4 ) 27 14 (6 ) 8 technology and other 4.5 42 (4 ) 38 4 (1 ) 3 total 6.8 $ 202 $ (18 ) $ 184 $ 36 $ (14 ) $ 22 refer to note 3 acquisitions above for a discussion of definite lived intangible assets acquired in business combinations during the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013. 83 intangible assets with definite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis. the estimated amortization expense for intangible assets with definite lives for each of the next five years, and the expense thereafter, assuming no subsequent impairment of the underlying assets, is expected to be as follows (in millions): 2015 $ 31 2016 31 2017 29 2018 27 2019 24 2020 and thereafter 42 total $ 184 note 8: debt term loan facility due 2016 and revolving credit facility overview on december 20, 2011, we entered into a credit agreement, by and among tripadvisor, tripadvisor holdings, llc, and tripadvisor llc, the lenders party thereto, jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., as administrative agent, and j.p. morgan europe limited, as london agent (this credit agreement, together with all exhibits, schedules, annexes, certificates, assignments and related documents contemplated thereby, is referred to herein as the credit agreement ), which provides $600 million of borrowing including: the term loan facility, or term loan, in an aggregate principal amount of $400 million with a term of five years due december 2016; and the revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $200 million available in u.s. dollars, euros and british pound sterling with a term of five years expiring december 2016. the term loan and any loans under the revolving credit facility bear interest by reference to a base rate or a eurocurrency rate, in either case plus an applicable margin based on our leverage ratio. we are also required to pay a quarterly commitment fee, on the average daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility for each fiscal quarter and fees in connection with the issuance of letters of credit. the term loan and loans under the revolving credit facility currently bear interest at libor plus 150 basis points, or the eurocurrency spread, or the alternate base rate ( abr ) plus 50 basis points, and undrawn amounts are currently subject to a commitment fee of 22.5 basis points. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, we were using a one-month interest period eurocurrency spread which is approximately 1.7% per annum. interest is currently payable on a monthly basis while we are borrowing under the one-month interest rate period. the current interest rates are based on current assumptions, leverage and libor rates and do not take into account that rates will reset periodically. the term loan principal is currently repayable in quarterly installments on the last day of each calendar quarter equal to 2.5% of the original principal amount with the balance due on the final maturity date. principal payments aggregating $40 million were made during the year ended december 31, 2014. the revolving credit facility includes $40 million of borrowing capacity available for letters of credit and $40 million for borrowings on same-day notice. as of december 31, 2014 there are no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2014 there were $1 million of outstanding letters of credit against the revolving credit facility. during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we recorded total interest and commitment fees on our credit agreement of $6 million, $8 million and $9 million, respectively, to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. all unpaid interest and commitment fee amounts as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 were not material. in connection with the credit agreement, we also incurred debt financing costs totaling $3.5 million, which were initially capitalized as deferred financing costs. during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we recorded amortization expense of $1 million, respectively, to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. these costs will continue to be amortized over the remaining term of the term loan using the effective interest rate method. 84 total outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement consist of the following: december 31, december 31, 2014 2013 (in millions) short-term debt: term loan $ 40 $ 40 total short-term borrowings $ 40 $ 40 long-term debt: term loan $ 260 $ 300 total long-term borrowings $ 260 $ 300 the future minimum principal payment obligations due under the credit agreement related to our term loan is as follows: principal payments december 31, (in millions) 2015 $ 40 2016 260 total $ 300 prepayments we may voluntarily repay any outstanding borrowing under the credit agreement at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs with respect to eurocurrency loans. guarantees all obligations under the credit agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by us and each of our existing and subsequently acquired or organized direct or indirect wholly-owned domestic and foreign restricted subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions for subsidiaries that are controlled foreign corporations, foreign subsidiaries in jurisdictions where applicable law would otherwise be violated, and non-material subsidiaries. covenants the credit agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur additional indebtedness, create liens, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, engage in mergers or consolidations, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends and distributions, make investments, loans or advances, prepay certain subordinated indebtedness, make certain acquisitions, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, amend material agreements governing certain subordinated indebtedness, and change our fiscal year. the credit agreement also requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum cash interest coverage ratio, and contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default, including a change of control. if an event of default occurs, the lenders under the credit agreement will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of all amounts due under credit agreement and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. as of december 31, 2014 we are in compliance with all of our debt covenants. chinese credit facilities in addition to our borrowings under the credit agreement, we maintain our chinese credit facilities. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, we had short-term borrowings outstanding of $38 million and $28 million, respectively. certain of our chinese subsidiaries are entered into a rmb 189,000,000 (approximately $30 million), one-year revolving credit facility with bank of america (the chinese credit facility boa ) that is currently subject to review on a periodic basis with no-specific expiration period. we had $19 million of outstanding borrowings from the chinese credit facility boa as of december 31, 2014. our chinese credit facility boa currently bears interest at a 100% of the people's bank of china's base rate which was 5.6% as of december 31, 2014. 85 in addition, certain of our chinese subsidiaries are entered into a rmb 125,000,000 (approximately $20 million) one-year revolving credit facility with j.p. morgan chase bank ( chinese credit facility-jpm ). we had $19 million of outstanding borrowings from the chinese credit facility jpm as of december 31, 2014. our chinese credit facility jpm currently bears interest at a 100% of the people's bank of china's base rate which was 5.6% as of december 31, 2014. note 9: income taxes the following table presents a summary of our domestic and foreign income before income taxes: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) domestic $ 146 $ 129 $ 133 foreign 176 155 149 total $ 322 $ 284 $ 282 the following table presents a summary of the components of our provision for income taxes: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) current income tax expense: federal $ 93 $ 48 $ 56 state 14 9 6 foreign 6 17 30 current income tax expense 113 74 92 deferred income tax (benefit) expense: federal (12 ) 6 (3 ) state (1 ) 1 foreign (4 ) (2 ) (2 ) deferred income tax (benefit) expense: (17 ) 5 (5 ) provision for income taxes $ 96 $ 79 $ 87 as of december 31, 2014, our current income tax receivable and income tax payable balances represent amounts that we will receive and pay, respectively, to the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. 86 our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 are as follows: december 31, 2014 2013 (in millions) deferred tax assets: stock-based compensation $ 43 $ 30 net operating loss carryforwards 34 18 provision for accrued expenses 13 7 deferred rent 5 build-to-suit lease 26 foreign advertising spend 9 other 5 4 total deferred tax assets $ 135 $ 59 less: valuation allowance (19 ) (13 ) net deferred tax assets $ 116 $ 46 deferred tax liabilities: intangible assets $ (88 ) $ (32 ) property and equipment (25 ) (18 ) prepaid expenses (4 ) (2 ) lease financing obligation (26 ) other (1 ) (2 ) total deferred tax liabilities $ (144 ) $ (54 ) net deferred tax liability $ (28 ) $ (8 ) at december 31, 2014, we had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards ( nols ) of approximately $42 million, $36 million and $84 million. if not utilized, the federal and state nols will expire at various times between 2020 and 2034 and the foreign nols will expire at various times between 2015 and 2034. at december 31, 2014, we had a valuation allowance of $19 million primarily related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards for which it is more likely than not that the tax benefit will not be realized. this amount represented an overall increase of $6 million over the amount recorded as of december 31, 2013. the increase is primarily due to additional foreign advertising spend, offset by expiring foreign net operating losses. except for certain deferred tax assets, we expect to realize all of our deferred tax assets based on a strong history of earnings in the us and other jurisdictions, as well as future reversals of taxable temporary differences. we have not provided for deferred u.s. income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries that we intend to reinvest permanently outside the united states; the total amount of such earnings as of december 31, 2014 was $630 million. should we distribute or be treated under certain u.s. tax rules as having distributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to u.s. income taxes. due to complexities in tax laws and various assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable at this time to estimate the amount of unrecognized deferred u.s. taxes on these earnings. a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amounts computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income before income taxes is as follows: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) income tax expense at the federal statutory rate of 35% $ 113 $ 100 $ 99 foreign rate differential (49 ) (41 ) (25 ) state income taxes, net of effect of federal tax benefit 13 8 5 unrecognized tax benefits and related interest 14 9 5 non-deductible transaction costs 1 change in valuation allowance 5 2 2 other, net (1 ) 1 1 provision for income taxes $ 96 $ 79 $ 87 87 during 2011, the singapore economic development board accepted our application to receive a tax incentive under the international headquarters award. this incentive provides for a reduced tax rate on qualifying income of 5% as compared to singapore's statutory tax rate of 17% and is conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. this agreement is set to expire on june 30, 2016, with the ability to extend for another five years. this benefit resulted in a decrease to the 2014 tax provision of $6 million or an incremental $0.04 to diluted eps for 2014. by virtue of previously filed consolidated income tax returns filed with expedia, we are currently under an irs audit for the 2009 and 2010 tax years, and have various ongoing state income tax audits. we are separately under audit for the 2012 tax year. as of december 31, 2014, no material assessments have resulted from these audits. these audits include questioning of the timing and the amount of income and deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. annual tax provisions include amounts considered sufficient to pay assessments that may result from the examination of prior year returns. we are no longer subject to tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2007. a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits (excluding interest and penalties) is as follows: december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) balance, beginning of year $ 36 $ 24 $ 13 increases to tax positions related to the current year 13 12 12 increases to tax positions related to the prior year 18 4 reductions due to lapsed statute of limitations decreases to tax positions related to the prior year (4 ) settlements during current year (1 ) balance, end of year $ 67 $ 36 $ 24 as of december 31, 2014, we had $67 million of unrecognized tax benefits, net of interest, which is classified as long-term and included in other long-term liabilities. of this amount, approximately $65 million would affect the effective tax rate if recognized, while $2 million would affect goodwill. we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, total gross interest accrued was $4 million and $2 million, respectively. we estimate that approximately $1 million will be paid within the next year related to audits. note 10: accrued expenses and other current liabilities accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 (in millions) accrued salary, bonus, and related benefits $ 41 $ 35 accrued marketing costs 24 22 accrued charitable foundation payments (1) 9 7 other 40 22 total accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ 114 $ 86 (1) see note 12 commitments and contingencies for information regarding our charitable foundation. 88 note 11: other long-term liabilities other long-term liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 (in millions) unrecognized tax benefits (1) $ 68 $ 38 construction liabilities (2) 67 8 other (3) 19 6 total other long-term liabilities $ 154 $ 52 (1) see note 9 income taxes for additional information on our unrecognized tax benefits. amount includes accrued interest related to this liability. (2) we capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes only. refer to note 12 commitments and contingencies , for additional information on our future corporate headquarters lease. (3) amounts primarily consist of long term deferred rent balances related to operating leases for office space. note 12: commitments and contingencies we have material commitments and obligations that include office space leases and expected interest on long-term debt, which are not accrued on the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2014 but we expect to require future cash outflows. office lease commitments we have contractual obligations in the form of operating leases for office space for which we record the related expense on a monthly basis. certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. rent expense related to such leases is recorded on a straight-line basis. operating lease obligations expire at various dates with the latest maturity in december 2030. for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we recorded rental expense of $17 million, $11 million and $8 million, respectively. we currently lease approximately 119,000 square feet for our corporate headquarters in newton, massachusetts, pursuant to a lease with an expiration date of april 2015. we are in the process of negotiating an extension of this lease until mid-2015. transition to new corporate headquarters in june 2013, tripadvisor llc ( ta llc ), our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a lease (the lease ), for a new corporate headquarters. pursuant to the lease, the landlord will build an approximately 280,000 square foot rental building in needham, massachusetts (the premises ), and thereafter lease the premises to ta llc as tripadvisor's new corporate headquarters for an initial term of 15 years and 7 months. if the landlord fails to deliver the premises according to the schedule, subject to certain conditions, ta llc may be entitled to additional free rent, or in extreme cases, a right to terminate the lease. under the lease, ta llc is required to pay an initial base rent of $33.00 per square foot per year, increasing to $34.50 per square foot by the final year of the initial term, as well as all real estate taxes and other building operating costs. ta llc also has an option to extend the term of the lease for two consecutive terms of five years each. the aggregate future minimum lease payments are $143 million and are currently scheduled to be paid, beginning in november 2015, as follows: $1 million for 2015, $9 million for 2016, $9 million for 2017, $9 million for 2018, $9 million for 2019 and $106 million for 2020 and thereafter. the lease has escalating rental payments and initial periods of free rent. ta llc was also obligated to deliver a letter of credit to the landlord in the amount of $1 million as security deposit, which amount is subject to increase under certain circumstances. ta llc also has an option to extend the term of the lease for two consecutive terms of five years each. subject to certain conditions, ta llc has certain rights under the lease, including rights of first offer to lease additional space or to purchase the premises if the landlord elects to sell. in connection with the lease, tripadvisor entered into a guaranty (the guaranty ), pursuant to which tripadvisor provides full payment and performance guaranty for all of ta llc's obligations under the lease. we have concluded we are the deemed owner (for accounting purposes only) of the premises during the construction period under build to suit lease accounting. building construction began in the fourth quarter of 2013. since construction began, we have recorded estimated project construction costs incurred by the landlord as a construction in progress asset and a corresponding long term liability in property and equipment, net and other long-term liabilities, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. we 89 will continue to increase the asset and corresponding long term liability as additional building costs are incurred by the landlord during the construction period. in addition, the amounts that the company has paid or incurred for normal tenant improvements and structural improvements have also been recorded to the construction-in-progress asset. once the landlord completes the construction of the premises (estimated to be mid 2015), we will evaluate the lease in order to determine whether or not the lease meets the criteria for sale-leaseback treatment under gaap. if the lease meets the sale-leaseback criteria, we will remove the asset and the related liability from our consolidated balance sheet and treat the lease as either an operating or capital lease based on the our assessment of the accounting guidance. however, we currently expect that upon completion of construction of the premises that the lease will not meet the "sale-leaseback" criteria. if the lease does not meet sale-leaseback criteria, we will treat the lease as a financing obligation and lease payments will be attributed to (1) a reduction of the principal financing obligation; (2) imputed interest expense; and (3) land lease expense (which is considered an operating lease) representing an imputed cost to lease the underlying land of the facility. in addition, the underlying building asset will be depreciated over the initial term of the lease. and at the conclusion of the lease term, we would de-recognize both the net book values of the asset and financing obligation. although we will not begin making lease payments pursuant to the lease until november 2015, the portion of the lease obligations allocated to the land is treated for accounting purposes as an operating lease that commenced in 2013. additional united states and international locations we also lease an aggregate of approximately 470,000 square feet at approximately 40 other locations across north america, europe and asia pacific, in cities such as, new york, boston, london, and beijing, primarily for our sales offices, subsidiary headquarters, and international management teams, pursuant to leases with expiration dates through november 2024. the following table summarizes our material commitments and obligations as of december 31, 2014 and excludes amounts already recorded on the consolidated balance sheet: by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years (in millions) operating leases (1) $ 114 $ 19 $ 27 $ 26 $ 42 build to suit lease obligation (2) 143 1 18 18 106 expected interest payments on term loan (3) 9 5 4 total (4)(5)(6)(7) $ 266 $ 25 $ 49 $ 44 $ 148 (1) estimated future minimum rental payments under operating leases with non-cancelable lease terms. (2) estimated future minimum rental payments for our future corporate headquarters in needham, ma. (3) the amounts included as expected interest payments on the term loan in this table are based on the current effective interest rate and payment terms as of december 31, 2014, but, could change significantly in the future. amounts assume that our existing debt is repaid at maturity and do not assume additional borrowings or refinancings of existing debt. refer to note 8 debt for additional information, including principal payments expected to be paid over the next two years, on our term loan. (4) excluded from the table was $68 million of unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, that we have recorded in other long-term liabilities for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. we estimate that approximately $1 million will be paid within the next twelve months. (5) excluded from the table is our obligation to fund a charitable foundation. the board of directors of the charitable foundation is currently comprised of stephen kaufer- president and chief executive officer, julie m.b. bradley-chief financial officer and seth j. kalvert- senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. our obligation was calculated at 2.0% of oiba in 2014. for a discussion regarding oiba see note 16 segment and geographic information in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. this future commitment has been excluded from the table above. (6) excludes spending on anticipated leasehold improvements on our needham, massachusetts lease, including design, development, construction costs, and the purchase and installation of equipment, net of related landlord incentives, which we estimate will be in the range of $25-$30 million primarily incurred during the first six months of 2015. (7) excludes current liabilities already recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2014, as these liabilities are expected to be paid within one year. letters of credit as of december 31, 2014, we have issued unused letters of credit totaling $1 million, related to our property leases. 90 off-balance sheet arrangements we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of regulation s-k of the sec, that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources at december 31, 2014. legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, we and our subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings and claims involving alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, defamation, and other claims. rules of the sec require the description of material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary, routine litigation incident to the registrant's business, and advise that proceedings ordinarily need not be described if they primarily involve damages claims for amounts (exclusive of interest and costs) not individually exceeding 10% of the current assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. in the judgment of management, none of the pending litigation matters that the company and its subsidiaries are defending involves or is likely to involve amounts of that magnitude. there may be claims or actions pending or threatened against us of which we are currently not aware and the ultimate disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on us. note 13: employee benefit plans retirement savings plan the tripadvisor retirement savings plan (the 401(k) plan ), qualifies under section 401(k) of the internal revenue code. the 401(k) plan allows participating employees, most of our u.s. employees, to make contributions of a specified percentage of their eligible compensation. participating employees may contribute up to 50% of their eligible salary on a pre-tax basis, but not more than statutory limits. employee-participants age 50 and over may also contribute an additional amount of their salary on a pre-tax tax basis up to the irs catch-up provision limit. employees may also contribute into the 401(k) plan on an after-tax basis up to an annual maximum of 10%. the 401(k) plan has an automatic enrollment feature at 3% pre-tax. we match 50% of the first 6% of employee contributions to the plan for a maximum employer contribution of 3% of a participant's eligible earnings. the catch up contributions , are not eligible for employer matching contributions. the matching contributions portion of an employee's account, vests after two years of service. effective june 8, 2012 the 401(k) plan permits certain after-tax roth 401(k) contributions. additionally, at the end of the 401 (k) plan year, we make a discretionary matching contribution to eligible participants. this additional discretionary matching employer contribution referred to as true up is limited to match only contributions up to 3% of eligible compensation. we also have various defined contribution plans for our international employees. our contribution to the 401(k) plan and our international defined contribution plans was $5 million, $5 million, and $3 million for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. tripadvisor, inc. deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors on december 20, 2011, the tripadvisor, inc. deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (the plan ) became effective. under the plan, eligible directors who defer their directors' fees may elect to have such deferred fees (i) applied to the purchase of share units, representing the number of shares of our common stock that could have been purchased on the date such fees would otherwise be payable, or (ii) credited to a cash fund. the cash fund will be credited with interest at an annual rate equal to the weighted average prime or base lending rate of a financial institution selected in accordance with the terms of the plan and applicable law. upon termination of service as a director of tripadvisor, a director will receive (i) with respect to share units, such number of shares of our common stock as the share units represent, and (ii) with respect to the cash fund, a cash payment. payments upon termination will be made in either one lump sum or up to five annual installments, as elected by the eligible director at the time of the deferral election. under the 2011 incentive plan, 100,000 shares of tripadvisor common stock are available for issuance to non-employee directors. from the inception of the plan through december 31, 2014, a total of 557 shares have been reserved for such purpose. 91 note 14: stockholders' equity preferred stock in addition to common stock, we are authorized to issue up to 100 million preferred shares, with $ 0.001 par value per share, with terms determined by our board of directors, without further action by our stockholders. at december 31, 2014, no preferred shares had been issued. common stock and class b common stock our authorized common stock consists of 1.6 billion shares of common stock with par value of $0.001 per share, and 400 million shares of class b common stock with par value of $0.001 per share. both classes of common stock qualify for and share equally in dividends, if declared by our board of directors. common stock is entitled to one vote per share and class b common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share on most matters. holders of tripadvisor common stock, acting as a single class, are entitled to elect a number of directors equal to 25% percent of the total number of directors, rounded up to the next whole number, which was three directors as of december 31, 2014. class b common stockholders may, at any time, convert their shares into common stock, on a one for one share basis. upon conversion, the class b common stock is retired and is not available for reissue. in the event of liquidation, dissolution, distribution of assets or winding-up of tripadvisor the holders of both classes of common stock have equal rights to receive all the assets of tripadvisor after the rights of the holders of the preferred stock have been satisfied. there were 132,315,465 and 130,121,292 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, respectively, at december 31, 2014 and 12,799,999 shares of class b common stock issued and outstanding at december 31, 2014. accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) accumulated other comprehensive loss is primarily comprised of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments, as follows for the periods presented: december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 (in millions) cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments (1) $ (31 ) $ total accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (31 ) $ (1) we consider our foreign subsidiary earnings indefinitely reinvested; therefore; deferred taxes are not provided on foreign currency translation adjustments. treasury stock on february 15, 2013, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of $250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. we intend to use available cash and future cash from operations to fund repurchases under the share repurchase program. the repurchase program has no expiration date but may be suspended or terminated by the board of directors at any time. our board of directors will determine the price, timing, amount and method of such repurchases based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors, and any shares repurchased will be in compliance with applicable legal requirements, at prices determined to be attractive and in the best interests of both the company and its stockholders. as of december 31, 2014, we have repurchased 2,120,709 shares of outstanding common stock under the share repurchase program at an aggregate cost of $145 million. we did not repurchase any shares under this share repurchase program during the year ended december 31, 2014. as of december 31, 2014, from the authorized share repurchase program granted by the board of directors we have $105 million remaining to repurchase shares of our common stock. dividends during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our board of directors did not declare any dividends on our outstanding common stock and do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. 92 note 15: related party transactions relationship between expedia and tripadvisor upon consummation of the spin-off, expedia was considered a related party under gaap based on a number of factors, including, among others, common ownership of our shares and those of expedia. however, we no longer consider expedia a related party. for purposes of governing certain of the ongoing relationships between us and expedia at and after the spin-off, and to provide for an orderly transition, we and expedia entered into various agreements at the time of the spin-off, which tripadvisor has satisfied its obligations. however, tripadvisor continues to be subject to certain post-spin obligations under the tax sharing agreement. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. the full text of the tax sharing agreement is incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10k as exhibit 10.2. refer to note 9 income taxes above for information regarding the status of completed and ongoing irs audits of our consolidated income tax returns with expedia to date. relationship between liberty interactive corporation, liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. and tripadvisor on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of 4,799,848 shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates (the stock purchase ). as of december 31, 2013, liberty beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock and was considered a related party with tripadvisor. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was indirectly acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. ( ltrip ) by means of a spin-off (the liberty spin-off ). in the liberty spin-off, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. as a result of the liberty spin-off, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company and 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor is now held by ltrip. given the change in ownership of our shares, we no longer consider liberty a related party effective as of the liberty spin-off. as of december 31, 2014, ltrip beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock, which shares constitute 14.0% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 21.7% of the outstanding common stock (calculated in accordance with rule 13d-3). because each share of class b common stock is generally entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing approximately 56.6% of our voting power. we consider ltrip a related party at december 31, 2014. we had no material related party transactions with liberty or ltrip during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 or 2012. note 16: segment and geographic information segment information during the fourth quarter of 2014, management changed tripadvisor's reportable segments to reflect changes in the management reporting structure of the organization, primarily due to recent business acquisitions, and the manner in which the chief operating decision maker, or codm, regularly assesses information and evaluates performance for operating decision-making purposes, including allocation of resources. we believe this new segment structure better provides the codm with information to assess performance and to make resource allocation decisions. the codm for the company is our chief executive officer. the revised reporting structure includes two reportable segments: hotel and other. our other segment consists of the aggregation of three operating segments, which include our vacation rentals, restaurants and attractions businesses. all prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current reporting structure. 93 hotel our hotel segment includes revenue generated from services related to hotels, including click-based and display-based advertising revenue from making hotel room nights, airline reservations, and cruise reservations available for price comparison and booking, as well as subscription-based products such as business listings, transaction-based products such as jetsetter and tingo, and other revenue related to hotels. our codm is also the hotel segment manager. other attractions. we provide, through viator, information and services for researching and booking destination activities around the world. viator works with local operators to provide travelers with access to tours and activities in popular destinations worldwide, earning a commission for such service. in addition to its consumer-direct business, viator also provides local experiences to affiliate partners, including some of the world's top airlines, hotels and travel agencies. restaurants. this business is comprised of our websites that provide online and mobile reservation services that connect restaurants with diners. these websites are currently focused on the european market, primarily through lafourchette. lafourchette is an online restaurant booking platform with a network of restaurant partners across europe. lafourchette also offers management software solutions helping restaurants to maximize business by providing a flexible online booking, discount and data tool. revenue is primarily generated by receiving a fee for each restaurant guest seated through the online reservation systems. vacation rentals . we offer individual property owners and property managers the ability to list their properties available for rental and connect with travelers using a subscription-based fee structure or a free-to-list, commission per booking based option. our vacation rental inventory currently includes full home rentals, condos, villas, beach rentals, cabins, cottages, and many other accommodation types. these properties are listed across a number of platforms, including tripadvisor vacation rentals, u.s.-based flipkey (which includes vacation home rentals acquired during 2014), and european-based holiday lettings and niumba. each operating segment in our other segment has a segment manager who is directly accountable to and maintains regular contact with our chief operating decision maker to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the segment. our primary operating metric for evaluating segment performance is adjusted ebitda, which is a non-gaap financial measure. we define adjusted ebitda as net income (loss) plus: (1) provision for income taxes; (2) other income (expense), net; (3) depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal use software and website development; (4) amortization of intangible assets; (5) stock-based compensation; and (6) non-recurring expenses. such amounts are detailed in our segment reconciliation below. in addition, please see our discussion of adjusted ebitda in the section of this annual report on form 10-k entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the following tables present our segment information for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. we record depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation, other expense, net, other non-recurring expenses, net, and income taxes, which are excluded from segment operating performance, in corporate and unallocated. in addition, we do not report our assets or capital expenditures by segment as it would not be meaningful. we also do not regularly provide asset, capital expenditure or depreciation information by segment to our codm. our consolidated general and administrative expenses, excluding stock-based compensation costs, are shared by all operating segments. each operating segment receives an allocated charge based on the segment's percentage of the company's total personnel costs. year ended december 31, 2014 hotel other corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,135 $ 111 $ $ 1,246 adjusted ebitda (1) 472 (4 ) 468 depreciation (47 ) (47 ) amortization of intangible assets (18 ) (18 ) stock-based compensation (63 ) (63 ) operating income (loss) $ 472 $ (4 ) $ (128 ) 340 other expense, net (18 ) income before income taxes 322 provision for income taxes (96 ) net income 226 94 year ended december 31, 2013 hotel other corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 899 $ 46 $ $ 945 adjusted ebitda (1) 384 (5 ) 379 depreciation (30 ) (30 ) amortization of intangible assets (6 ) (6 ) stock-based compensation (49 ) (49 ) operating income (loss) $ 384 $ (5 ) $ (85 ) 294 other expense, net (10 ) income before income taxes 284 provision for income taxes (79 ) net income 205 year ended december 31, 2012 hotel other corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 732 $ 31 $ $ 763 adjusted ebitda (1) 349 3 352 depreciation (20 ) (20 ) amortization of intangible assets (6 ) (6 ) stock-based compensation (30 ) (30 ) operating income (loss) $ 349 $ 3 $ (56 ) 296 other expense, net (14 ) income before income taxes 282 provision for income taxes (87 ) net income 195 (1) includes allocated general and administrative expenses in our hotel segment of $87 million, $72 million and $56 million; and in our other segment of $18 million, $9 million and $6 million for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the following table is a reconciliation of our adjusted ebitda to net income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with gaap, for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) adjusted ebitda $ 468 $ 379 $ 352 depreciation (1) (47 ) (30 ) (20 ) oiba (2) 421 349 332 amortization of intangible assets (18 ) (6 ) (6 ) stock-based compensation (63 ) (49 ) (30 ) other expense, net (18 ) (10 ) (14 ) provision for income taxes (96 ) (79 ) (87 ) net income $ 226 $ 205 $ 195 (1) includes amortization of internal use software and website development costs. (2) we define oiba as net income (loss) plus: (1) provision for income taxes; (2) other income (expense), net; (3) stock-based compensation; (4) amortization of intangible assets; and (5) non-recurring expenses. this operating metric is only used by our management to calculate our annual obligation for our charitable foundation. refer to note 12 commitments and contingencies for a discussion of our charitable foundation. 95 revenue and geographic information we derive the substantial portion of our revenue through the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. in addition, we earn revenue from a combination of subscription-based and transaction-based offerings, including: business listings; subscription and commission-based offerings from our vacation rentals products; transaction revenue from selling room nights; selling destination activities; fulfilling online restaurant reservations; as well as other revenue including content licensing. the following table presents revenue by product for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) click-based advertising $ 870 $ 696 $ 588 display-based advertising 140 119 94 subscription, transaction and other 236 130 81 total revenue $ 1,246 $ 945 $ 763 the following table presents revenue by geographic area, the united states, the united kingdom and all other countries, based on the geographic location of our websites for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) revenue united states $ 593 $ 463 $ 386 united kingdom 191 141 110 all other countries 462 341 267 $ 1,246 $ 945 $ 763 the following table presents property and equipment, net for the united states and all other countries based on the geographic location of the assets for the periods presented: december 31, 2014 2013 (in millions) property and equipment, net united states $ 170 $ 67 all other countries 25 15 $ 195 $ 82 note 17: interest income and other, net the following table presents the detail of interest income and other, net, for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) net loss, realized and unrealized, on foreign exchange and foreign currency derivative contracts and other, net $ (10 ) $ (2 ) $ (3 ) interest income 1 2 - total interest income and other, net $ (9 ) $ - $ (3 ) 96 tripadvisor, inc. quarterly financial information (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share data) the following table presents selected unaudited financial information for the eight quarters in the period ended december 31, 2014. the results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of future quarterly results and, accordingly, period to period comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. three months ended march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 (in millions) year ended december 31, 2014 revenue $ 281 $ 323 $ 354 $ 288 operating income 96 100 84 60 net income 68 68 54 36 net income attributable to tripadvisor, inc. 68 68 54 36 basic earnings per share $ 0.48 $ 0.48 $ 0.38 $ 0.25 diluted earnings per share $ 0.47 $ 0.47 $ 0.37 $ 0.25 year ended december 31, 2013 revenue $ 230 $ 247 $ 255 $ 213 operating income 88 94 84 28 net income 62 67 56 20 net income attributable to tripadvisor, inc. 62 67 56 20 basic earnings per share $ 0.44 $ 0.47 $ 0.39 $ 0.14 diluted earnings per share $ 0.43 $ 0.46 $ 0.38 $ 0.14 ite m 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a . controls and procedures evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures as of december 31, 2014, our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act. based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer concluded that, as of december 31, 2014, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the exchange act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the securities and exchange commission's, or the sec's, rules and forms, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. changes in internal control over financial reporting there were no changes to our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended december 31, 2014 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. management's report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rule 13a-15(f) of the exchange act. internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. under the supervision and with the participation of the company's management, including the chief executive officer and president and the chief financial officer, the company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in internal control integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. 97 the company's management evaluated the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, excluding an assessment of internal control over financial reporting of lafourchette and viator, and their subsidiaries. lafourchette and viator were acquired on may 22, 2014 and august 8, 2014, respectively, whose consolidated financial statements represent, in the aggregate, 2% of total assets, excluding goodwill and other intangibles, and 3% of total revenue, respectively, of the company's consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended december 31,2014. pursuant to exchange act rule 13a-15(d) or 15d-15(d), management has concluded that, as of december 31,2014, our internal control over financial reporting was effective and these exclusions will not extend beyond one year from the acquisition dates stated herein. management has reviewed its assessment with the audit committee. kpmg llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, as stated in their report which is included below. limitations on effectiveness of controls and procedures management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. 98 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders tripadvisor, inc.: we have audited tripadvisor, inc.'s (the company) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). tripadvisor, inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, tripadvisor, inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). tripadvisor, inc. acquired lafourchette sas and its subsidiaries (lafourchette) and viator, inc. and its subsidiaries (viator) during 2014, and management excluded from its assessment of the effectiveness of tripadvisor, inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, lafourchette and viator's internal control over financial reporting associated with total assets of 2% and total revenues of 3% included in the consolidated financial statements of the company as of and for the year ended december 31, 2014. our audit of internal control over financial reporting of tripadvisor, inc. also excluded an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of lafourchette and viator. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheet of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2014, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the year then ended, and our report dated february 17, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp boston, massachusetts february 17, 2015 99 item 9b . other information none. part iii item 10 . directors, executive officers and corporate governance the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2015 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2014. item 11 . executive compensation the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2015 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2014. item 12 . security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2015 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2014. item 13 . certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2015 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2014. item 14 . principal accounting fees and services the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2015 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2014. 100 part iv item 15 . exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) the following is filed as part of this annual report on form 10-k: 1. consolidated financial statements : the consolidated financial statements and report of independent registered public accounting firms required by this item are included in part ii,risk factors 11 "risk factors." moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. we caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. we expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on form 10-q for future periods and current reports on form 8-k as we file them with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or the sec, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through current reports on form 8-k or otherwise, for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. 1 part i item 1. business overview tripadvisor, inc. owns and operates a portfolio of leading online travel brands. tripadvisor, our flagship brand, is the world's largest travel site. our mission is to help people around the world plan and book the perfect trip. we accomplish this by, among other things, aggregating millions of travelers' reviews and opinions about destinations, accommodations, activities and attractions, and restaurants throughout the world so that our users have access to trusted advice wherever their trips take them. our platform not only helps users plan their trips with our unique user-generated content, but also enables users to compare real-time pricing and availability so that they can book hotels, vacation rentals, flights, activities and attractions, and restaurants. our tripadvisor-branded websites include tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the tripadvisor website in 46 countries worldwide and are offered in 28 languages: english, spanish, chinese (traditional and simplified), russian, arabic, greek, korean, polish, norwegian, turkish, danish, swedish, dutch, bahasa, thai, portuguese, japanese, italian, french, vietnamese, hebrew, suomi, hungarian, czech, slovak, serbian, and german. our tripadvisor-branded websites, operated by our subsidiaries, reached 350 million average monthly unique visitors during the year ended december 31, 2015, according to our internal log files. our websites feature 320 million reviews and opinions on 6.2 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do including 995,000 hotels and accommodations and 770,000 vacation rentals, 3.8 million restaurants and 625,000 attractions around the world. in addition to user-generated content, our websites feature price comparison tools and links to partner websites, including travel advertisers, on which users can book their travel arrangements. users may now also complete hotel bookings directly with our partners through tripadvisor.com and also through the tripadvisor mobile application, where coverage is available. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we now manage and operate 23 other travel media brands, connected by the common goal of providing users the most comprehensive travel-planning and trip-taking resources in the travel industry. our wholly owned subsidiaries operate the following websites in connection with these brands: www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.everytrail.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl, www.besttables.com, and www.dimmi.com.au), www.gateguru.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.independenttraveler.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.smartertravel.com, www.tingo.com, www.travelpod.com, www.tripbod.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, www.viator.com, and www.virtualtourist.com. 2015 highlights following are some business highlights for fiscal 2015 : tripadvisor reached 320 million review and opinions on 6.2 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do including 995,000 hotels and accommodations and 770,000 vacation rentals, 3.8 million restaurants and 625,000 attractions in 125,000 destinations throughout the world. our websites globally reached 350 million average monthly unique visitors during the year. mobile traffic grew to more than 53% of our unique users via tablet and smartphone and we achieved 290 million total mobile app downloads. we launched instant booking to tripadvisor users in the u.s. and u.k. and entered into an agreement with the priceline group, or priceline, as well as 7 of the top 10 major hotel chains to provide users with the ability to book reservations with more than 450,000 hotels around the globe. viator launched viator marketplace, a new open-listing platform which enables tour, activity and attraction providers to self-load their products onto viator and now offers more than 32,000 bookable attractions around the globe. we expanded thefork.com's bookable restaurant listings to more than 33,000 across 12 countries, including australia, brazil and the netherlands. we grew vacation rental listings 18% or to 770,000 properties. corporate history, equity ownership and voting control tripadvisor was co-founded in february 2000 by stephen kaufer, our current president and chief executive officer. tripadvisor was acquired by iac/interactivecorp, or iac, in april 2004. in august 2005, iac spun-off its portfolio of travel brands, 2 including tripadvisor, into a separate newly-formed delaware corporation called expedia, inc., or expedia. on december 20, 2011 expedia completed a spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly traded delaware corporation. we refer to this second transaction as the spin-off. following the spin-off, tripadvisor began trading on the nasdaq global select market, or nasdaq, as an independent public company on december 21, 2011 under the symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of 4,799,848 shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates. as a result, liberty beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip. simultaneously, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. we refer to this transaction as the liberty spin off. as a result of the liberty spin-off, effective august 27, 2014, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor. as a result of these transactions, as of december 31, 2015, ltrip beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock, which shares constitute 13.7% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 21.3% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock is generally entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing approximately 56.1% of our voting power. our business model our platforms connect users wishing to plan and book the best travel experiences with providers of travel accommodations and travel services around the world. we derive the majority of our revenue from the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. the remainder of our revenue is generated through a combination of subscription and transaction-based offerings as well as content licensing. click-based advertising revenue . our largest source of revenue is click-based advertising, which includes links to our partners' booking sites and contextually-relevant branded and unbranded text links. our click-based advertising partners are predominantly online travel agencies, or otas, and direct suppliers in the hotel, airline and cruise product categories. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc, basis, with payments from advertisers based on the number of users who click on each type of link. cpc prices are determined in a bidding process that allows our partners to use our proprietary system to submit cpc bids to have their rates and availability listed on our site. when a partner submits a cpc bid they agree to pay the amount of that bid each time a user subsequently clicks on the url link to the partner's website. bids are submitted periodically sometimes as often as daily or weekly on a property-by property basis and the size of the bid relative to other bids received determines the partner's placement in all metasearch placements on our site with one or more offers shown, including hotel comparison search results and the property detail page. the system is automated and the size of the partner's bid is the only factor impacting the partner's placement on that page, except that individual partners may be sorted lower in the event that they have not provided price information or if they cease to have availability for the property. click-based advertising revenue also includes revenue from our instant booking feature, which enables the merchant of record, generally an ota or hotel partner, to pay a commission rate for a user that completes a reservation on tripadvisor. instant booking revenue is currently recognized under two different models : the transaction model and the consumption model. our transaction model commission revenue is recorded at the time a traveler books a hotel reservation on our site with one of our transaction partners. our transaction partners are liable for commission payment to us upon booking and the partner assumes the cancelation risk. when a traveler makes a hotel reservation on our site with one of our consumption partners, revenue is not recorded until the travelers' stay. our consumption partners are liable for commission payment upon the completion of stay by the traveler. ota and hotel partner placement and comparative hotel prices available to the traveler in the booking process under both models are determined in a bidding process in our proprietary system, based on a number of variables including commission rates, depending on the specific hotel selected. for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we earned $956 million, or 64%, $870 million, or 70% and $696 million, or 74%, respectively, in revenue from click-based advertising. display-based advertising revenue . advertising partners can promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner through a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites. while our display-based advertising clients are predominately direct suppliers in the hotel, airline and cruise categories as well as otas, we also accept display 3 advertising from destination marketing organizations, casinos, resorts and attractions, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 , we earned $159 million, o r 11%, $140 million, or 11%, and $119 million, or 13%, respectively, in revenue from display-based advertising. subscription-based, transaction-based and other revenue . business listings is a subscription-based advertising product offered to hotels, b&amp;bs and other specialty lodging properties. this advertising product is sold for a flat fee and allows subscribers to list, for a contracted period of time, a website url, email address and phone number on our tripadvisor-branded websites, as well as to post special offers for travelers. in addition, we earn revenue from making hotel room nights available for booking on our transaction-based sites, including jetsetter and tingo for which we are the merchant of record, making rental listings available through our vacation rentals business, selling destination activities primarily through viator, and providing access to online restaurant reservations primarily through lafourchette, or thefork.com; as well as other revenue including content licensing with third party sites. for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 we earned $377 million, or 25%, $236 million, or 19%, and $130 million, or 14%, respectively, in revenue from subscription-based, transaction-based and other revenue. our industry we operate in the global travel industry, focusing exclusively on online travel activity and the online advertising market. according to phocuswright, global travel spending is expected to be greater than $1.3 trillion in 2016. recent historical trends show that, each year, an increasing percentage of global travel spending has been conducted online through supplier websites and online travel agencies. we believe that this trend will continue as online penetration continues to grow, as more consumers gain broadband access to the internet, as smartphone, tablets and other mobile computing devices continue to proliferate, and as travel activity increases along with an expanding middle class in certain developing countries like china and india. we believe that the internet will continue to become even more integral to the travel-planning process due to increasing worldwide online penetration, particularly given the capabilities that the internet provides travelers, including the ability to refine searches, compare destinations, view real-time pricing, complete bookings, and access information while in-destination. more advertisers continue to shift their spending from offline to online channels, mirroring the trend in consumer media consumption generally. given the size of the travel market, we believe that travel providers and travel related advertisers are, and will continue to be, motivated to devote significant resources to advertise their travel products and services. in addition, as more and more travel transactions are conducted online generally, we believe that an increasing amount of travel advertising spending will migrate from traditional offline advertising channels to online advertising opportunities. our key strengths tripadvisor-branded sites are comprehensive online resources for user-generated content on destinations, lodging, attractions and restaurants that help travelers plan and book the perfect trip. to help our users plan their trip, we currently feature 320 million reviews and opinions on accommodations, attractions, and restaurants, including more than 50 million candid photos, and helpful content ranging from hotel room tips to travel guides. we provide real-time pricing and availability search functionality that compares hundreds of partner websites so that users can find and book the best prices. we also enable users to book activities and attractions and restaurant reservations on our site. our tools and travel content are available to users around the world in 28 different languages as well as on web-based and mobile applications on mobile devices and on desktops. in order to achieve our goal, we leverage our key assets a robust travel community, rich user-generated content, continuous technological innovation and global reach as follows: robust travel community . we believe that we have the largest breadth of content in our markets and that, because of this breadth, travelers gravitate to our websites to research and plan their trips. by providing an interactive forum to share their experiences, our large and highly engaged community of travelers is a valuable resource. to facilitate planning, we enable consumers to research pricing and availability from third-party travel booking sites. to encourage better travel experiences for consumers and to create a feedback loop between the hospitality industry and individual travelers, we allow hospitality management representatives to respond to reviews of their properties on our website. after completing their trip, consumers can return to our websites to write reviews to give back to the community that helped them plan their trip. through this cycle, more content is generated, which drives community, traffic, loyalty and higher search engine rankings, all of which lead to further content creation. we believe that the volume of reviews generated on our websites and the robust feedback loop created on our websites provides us with a significant advantage over our competitors. 4 rich user-generated content. we believe that the best travel content comes fro m the wisdom and insight of a robust community of travelers. we leverage user-generated content to power travel planning by allowing members to create reviews and share opinions on hundreds of thousands of accommodations, destinations, attractions and rest aurants. as evidenced by the growth of our business, this type of travel planning has been embraced by travelers. to promote an enthusiastic reviewer community that continues to provide valuable content and promotes our brand, we have launched several prog rams to recognize reviewer contributions, including site badges, helpful vote recognition, and other features, all of which highlight the current and helpful reviews and opinions available throughout the tripadvisor community. technology and innovation . product innovation and speed to market are our two most important priorities in order to create an increasingly rich user experience. we have weekly engineering releases that contain new products and features for our websites and mobile apps. some recent examples of this product innovation include: just for you, which delivers users a more personalized hotel shopping experience; instant booking, a feature that enables users to complete a hotel reservation while remaining on the tripadvisor website; hotel metasearch, which enables users to see real-time availability and compare prices from hundreds of partner websites, without requiring the user to visit another website; and tripconnect, which enables independent hoteliers to compete for leads on tripadvisor. our ongoing commitment to innovation also extends to content syndication and review collection partnerships, as we leverage our technology and content for the benefit of other websites. in addition, we utilize manual and electronic fraud detection in order to maintain the quality and authenticity of user reviews. global reach . we are a global company, both through the reach of our portfolio of branded websites and through our in-market staffing in 24 countries. as of december 31, 2015, we had 1,530 employees based outside of the united states, representing 51% of our employee population. as of december 31, 2015, we had branded websites in 46 countries outside the united states in 28 languages. we have nearly 990 million review translations, and are committed to continuing to improve the in-country user experience and the local content coverage for all of our points-of-sale. we believe that the universally-relevant content and community of our core tripadvisor platform and our other brands uniquely position us to appeal to travelers throughout the world. our strategy we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand-building, and relationships with advertisers and other partners to expand our business and enhance our global competitive position. these investments have enabled us to, among other things, aggregate a large base of consumer reviews, in a variety of languages, across our global platform of websites. we continue to focus on the following areas to grow our business: continuing technology innovation. we believe our ability to innovate and to provide additional functionality to our websites and apps across all devices will enable us to continue to deliver an industry-leading user experience. our innovation culture supports bringing product enhancements to market at speed. in doing so, we believe that we can continue to, among other things, grow content, usage, loyalty and engagement, as well as to enhance our competitive positioning. enhancing community-driven platform. we grow brand awareness and member acquisition on social media channels, including facebook, twitter and other social media platforms. we believe our social integration and personalization initiatives help to drive usage of, engagement with, and content contributed to, our products. users can share their reviews and ratings with their friends through facebook connect and also can publish their tripadvisor content to their facebook timelines. additionally, our just for you personalization feature gives users personalized recommendations based on friends' reviews and ratings as well as information collected about user preferences in selecting hotels. improving the user experience. we strive to improve the travel discovery and booking experience as well as help users discover and book places to eat and things to do while they are on the trip. for example, in 2013 we introduced hotel price comparison, or hotel metasearch, which enables users to find real-time availability and the lowest hotel room prices from hundreds of partner websites, without requiring the user to visit another website. starting in 2014 and throughout 2015, we also rolled out our hotel instant booking feature, for hotels across our u.s. and u.k. platforms to all users on all devices. in addition to price comparison and booking capabilities, we offer user reviews, photos, room tips, management questions and answers, maps, and filtering to enable users to find the best accommodation, attraction or restaurant for them. investing in traffic growth. we believe that our travel products are excellent tools to help all travelers plan and book the perfect trip. we seek to amplify our global brand and products through various online and offline marketing channels to increase the number of users who navigate to our site either directly, also known as domain direct traffic, or from other marketing channels. we leverage a number of offline advertising channels including: permanent branding campaigns such as tripadvisor-branded travel awards, certificates, stickers and badges and television advertising. we also leverage a number of online advertising channels including: customer relationship management email campaigns, or crm; social 5 networks; organic search through search engine optimization, or seo; paid search thro ugh search engine marketing, or sem; and referrals from partners whose sites contain links to tripadvisor content, badges or widgets. at approximately 18% of global online travel unique visitors, according to comscore media metrix, we believe that we have an opportunity to continue growing unique visitors to our websites. in order to achieve this objective, we intend to invest in the aforementioned channels, as well as any new channels that we may identify in the future. allowing hotel shoppers to book directly on our websites. we believe that allowing users to book directly online without leaving our tripadvisor-branded websites will result in a better user experience as well as, ultimately, additional revenue to the company. instant booking is a feature that enables users to make a hotel reservation directly with a hotel or ota partner while remaining on the tripadvisor website. we have been gradually rolling this feature out in the u.s. since june 2014 and in 2015, accelerated the rollout of instant booking for hotels across our u.s. and u.k. platforms to all users on all devices. we also plan to continue rolling out this feature to additional international markets in 2016. our business success depends in large part on our ability to maintain and expand relationships with our partners in the travel industry. these partners power the instant booking feature on our website and, we believe, also benefit from this feature, through increased reservations and more direct relationships with travelers. enhancing our mobile offerings . we believe investing in and rapidly innovating and improving the tripadvisor user experience on mobile devices is necessary to maintain and grow our business. we create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and develop ways to efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms. we have invested in developing and improving our native applications and have made significant progress creating mobile offerings which have received strong user feedback and have been downloaded 290 million times. we see an opportunity to increase monetization of mobile devices, especially as we increase the percentage of revenue that comes from transaction-based products. enhancing international offerings . we are focused on strengthening our broad global footprint as we believe that penetrating international markets represents a long-term opportunity for us. we continue to improve localization and grow our user base in europe, asia and south america, especially in emerging markets, such as brazil, russia and china. in addition, we currently have a lead product offering in the chinese market re-branded mao tu ying (or tripadvisor china) headquartered in beijing. we continue to invest in the chinese market, despite operating at a loss, and will continue to enhance our product offerings to international travelers. expansion into adjacent categories . we intend to continue to grow our business and expand our product and service offerings that either complement our existing core hotel segment or provide additional resources, products and/or services that will improve the user experience for hotel shoppers. in addition, we continue to make investments, in adjacent categories in order to leverage and monetize the significant percentage of our users who are not hotel shoppers, or who visit tripadvisor sites without navigating to pages that contain a listing of hotels in a city or a specific hotel's page. two recent examples include our acquisitions of lafourchette or thefork.com, the leading online and mobile reservation platform for restaurants in france, spain and switzerland, with a network of restaurant partners in europe and australia; and viator, the leading online resource for researching and booking destination activities around the world. our commercial relationships we have a number of commercial relationships that are important to the success of our business. although these relationships are memorialized in some form of agreement, many of these agreements are for a limited term or are terminable at will or on short notice. as a result, we work hard to ensure the mutual success of these relationships. we have advertising relationships with the vast majority of the leading otas as well as a variety of other travel suppliers pursuant to which these companies purchase traveler leads from us, generally on a cpc basis. for the year ended december 31, 2015, our two most significant advertising partners, expedia and priceline (and their subsidiaries), each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue and combined accounted for 46% of our total revenue. our instant booking feature enables hotel shoppers to book directly with a third-party partner, without leaving our website. to facilitate this, we have partnered with seven of the top ten major hotel chains, including accor, best western international, carlson rezidor, choice hotels, hyatt hotels, marriott international and wyndham worldwide. we also partnered with priceline, whereby some of priceline's online travel brands will participate in our instant booking platform, beginning with its booking.com brand. as a result, users are able to book more than 450,000 hotels, powered by our partners, without leaving the tripadvisor site or mobile experience. we have a content licensing program utilized by over 1,300 partners around the world, including hotel chains, online travel agents, tourist boards, airlines and media sites. tripadvisor also distributes its content through self-service html widgets, which are used on the websites of hotels, restaurants, attractions and destination marketing organizations. these products, which are available at 6 no cost in the tripadvisor management center, allow businesses and destinations to promote themselves by displaying their tripadv isor ratings, reviews and awards. tripadvisor widgets are presently found on more than 200,000 unique domains around the globe. both free and licensed tripadvisor content reaches over 900 million people per month. partners benefit from our user-generated content, such as reviews, ratings and photos. in addition, we power review collection for a growing number of partners, such as accor hotels, wyndham hotel group, best western and easytobook.com, enabling them to proactively collect reviews from their own customers post-stay in their own branded environment. we have also developed partnerships with mobile carriers and device manufacturers. marketing and promotions we have established widely-used and recognized brands through our marketing efforts. we continue to aggressively promote our brands, particularly our flagship brand tripadvisor. our marketing programs are intended to build and maintain the value of our brands, promote consumer engagement and contributions, drive qualified clicks to our metasearch and instant booking partners and strategically position our brands in the market. our long-term success depends on our continued ability to maintain and increase the overall number of consumers flowing through our brand in a cost-effective manner, to engage customers in both the planning and booking phase, and to attract consumers who will share their own content from their trips. we reach consumers across mobile and desktop devices through our online marketing acquisition programs, and offline through our offline brand campaigns. we also utilize our crm channels by sending relevant and engaging traveler communications to our members via email. we have a robust global public relations program that yields placements on a constant basis in major print and online publications. we continue to look for new ways to build brand awareness and expand new channels, which may include traditional media and social media channels including facebook and twitter to deepen customer engagement. we syndicate our content so that other sites can feature tripadvisor branding and content. lastly, marketing and product development initiatives are closely tied. we are constantly creating helpful features and functionality so that our users can discover more relevant travel planning reviews, advice and booking content that they want to talk about and share with their friends. operations and technology we have assembled a team of highly skilled software engineers, computer scientists, data scientists, network engineers, and systems engineers whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas, including a wide variety of open source operating systems, databases, languages, analytics, networking, scalable web architecture, operations, and warehousing technologies. we make significant investments in product and feature development, data management, personalization technologies, scalable infrastructures, networking, data warehousing, and search engine technologies. the tripadvisor-branded websites are powered primarily using java programming language. our systems infrastructure, web and database servers for tripadvisor-branded websites are housed at two geographically separate facilities and have multiple communication links as well as continuous monitoring and engineering support. each facility is fully self-sufficient and operational with its own hardware, networking, software, and content, and is structured in an active/passive, fully redundant configuration. substantially all of our software components, data, and content are replicated in multiple datacenters and development centers, as well as being backed up at offsite locations. our systems are monitored and protected though multiple layers of security. several of our individual subsidiaries and businesses, including viator, have their own data infrastructure and technology teams. widespread adoption of mobile devices such as iphone, android-enabled smart phones and tablets such as the ipad, coupled with the improved web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful apps available on these devices, is driving substantial traffic and commerce activity to mobile platforms. we have seen tremendous growth in the adoption of mobile platforms, as have our advertising partners. advertising opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their small screen sizes. further, given the size and technical limitations of tablets and smartphones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple travel service providers and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel activity. as a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps (as well as brand recognition and loyalty) is becoming increasingly important and we make significant investments in this area. we believe that mobile bookings are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices and mobile applications. as a result, we have made significant progress creating mobile offerings, which have received strong reviews, solid download trends and are driving an increasing share of our business. our competition we compete in rapidly evolving and intensely competitive markets. we face competition for content, users, advertisers, online travel search and price comparison services (or hotel metasearch) and online reservations. we also face competition from large companies that also offer comprehensive on-line resources for destinations, lodging, attractions and restaurants. 7 our primary competitors include large online portals, social networking sites and search engines, su ch as google (including google + local), facebook (including graph search), yahoo! (including yahoo! travel) and baidu. we also face competition from otas (such as expedia and priceline and their respective subsidiaries), as well as wholesalers, tour opera tors and traditional offline travel agencies. we also compete with a wide range of other companies, including airbnb, inc., alibaba, ctrip.com international, ltd., holidaycheck ag, homeaway, inc. (a subsidiary of expedia), yelp, inc. and opentable, inc. (a subsidiary of priceline). in the competition to attract users, we rely on our ability to acquire traffic through offline brand recognition and brand-direct efforts such as television, email and online search, whether unpaid or paid. unpaid search is sometimes referred to as seo, which is the practice of developing websites with relevant and current content that rank well in organic, or unpaid, search engine results. seo can be affected by a number of factors including competitive site content, changes to our website architecture and page designs, changes to search engine ranking algorithms, or changes to display ordering in search engine results such as preferred placement for internal products offered by search engines. sem is a form of internet marketing that involves the promotion of websites by increasing their visibility in search engine results pages through the use of paid placement, contextual advertising, and paid inclusion. sem is a competitive marketplace with competitors continually updating their traffic acquisition strategies and economic models across a large number of keywords and markets. we compete for advertisers with large, established search engines with significantly greater resources than we have, such as google, bing, and yahoo!, as well as online media companies and ad networks, and offline advertising sources, such as television and print media. these competitors have large client bases and significantly greater resources than we have and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating internet traffic are creating inroads into online travel. competition from these parties could cause us to lose advertising customers or shares of advertising expenditures. if google, or any other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, or otherwise favor supplier websites or other travel service websites over other online travel sites, including us, it would likely become more difficult and expensive for us to generate traffic to our websites and therefore maintain or grow our market share. we also compete for online travel search and price comparison services (or hotel metasearch), with other such companies, including expedia (through its ownership of trivago), priceline (through its ownership of kayak) and hotelscombined. with respect to our restaurant, attractions and vacation and short-term rental businesses, we face competition from a variety of companies, including: online restaurant reservation services, such as opentable (a subsidiary of priceline), yelp's seatme and amazon's table8; online attraction reservation services, such as getyourguide and expedia's destination services; online accommodation search and/or reservation services focused on vacation and short-term rental properties, such as homeaway (a subsidiary of expedia) and airbnb, inc. certain of the companies we do business with are also our competitors. the consolidation of our competitors and partners, including expedia (through its ownership of trivago, orbitz, travelocity, and homeaway) and priceline (through its ownership of kayak and opentable), coupled with evolving business models throughout the industry, results in a highly dynamic competitive environment. as the market evolves for online travel content and the technology supporting it, including platforms such as smartphone and tablet computing devices, we anticipate that the existing competitive landscape will change and new competitors may emerge. intellectual property our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology and trade secrets, is an important component of our business. we rely on our intellectual property rights in our content, proprietary technology, software code, ratings indexes, databases of reviews and forum content, images, videos, graphics and brands. we have acquired some of our intellectual property rights through licenses and content agreements with third parties. these licenses and agreements may place restrictions on the use of our intellectual property. we protect our intellectual property by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, as well as on international, national, state and common law rights. in addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. we protect our brands by pursuing the trademark registration of our core brands, such as tripadvisor and the owl logo, maintaining our trademark portfolio, securing contractual trademark rights protection when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. we also register copyrights and domain names as deemed appropriate. additionally, we protect our trademarks, domain names and copyrights with the use of intellectual property licenses and an enforcement program. 8 we have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future inventions, as circumstances may warrant. however, many patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may no t create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us. government regulation we are subject to a number of united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet, many of which are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. these may involve user privacy, libel, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation and online payment services. in particular, we are subject to united states federal and state and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. in addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations is often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate. there are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the united states congress, various state legislative bodies, and foreign governments concerning data protection which could affect us. in addition, we provide advertising data and information and conduct marketing activities that are subject to united states federal and state consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices, domestically and internationally. the united states and european union have begun to adopt legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, and liability for third-party activities. united states federal, state and foreign governments have considered from time to time alternative legislative and regulatory proposals that would increase regulation on internet advertising. it is impossible to accurately predict whether new taxes or regulations will be imposed on our services, and whether or how we might be affected. increased regulation of the internet could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operational results. we are subject to laws that require protection of user privacy and user data. in our processing of reservations, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data in the united states, europe and asia. this data is increasingly subject to laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the commission of the european union through its data protection directive and variations and implementations of that directive in the member states of the european union. such government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. our reportable segments we have two reportable segments: hotel and other. our other segment consists of three operating segments: our attractions, restaurants and vacation rentals businesses. our operating segments are determined based on how our chief operating decision maker manages our business, regularly assesses information and evaluates performance for operating decision-making purposes, including allocation of resources. the chief operating decision maker for the company is our chief executive officer. hotel segment our hotel segment accounted for 85% of our company's consolidated revenue in 2015 and includes revenue generated from services related to hotels, including click-based and display-based advertising revenue from making hotel room nights available for price comparison and booking, including our instant booking feature, as well as subscription-based hotel products such as business listings, transaction-based hotel products such as jetsetter and tingo, and other revenue related to hotels. our hotel segment also includes advertising revenue from making airline reservations and cruise reservations available for price comparison and booking. the hotel segment's financial performance is principally dependent on our ability to grow click-based advertising revenue. this revenue stream is highly dependent upon growth in our hotel shoppers, how effectively we convert hotel shoppers into revenue, and the price we get paid per hotel shopper, all of which equates to revenue per hotel shopper. we use the term hotel shoppers to refer to visitors who view either a listing of hotels in a city or a specific hotel page. a significant percentage of our annual unique users are not hotel shoppers and visit tripadvisor sites without navigating to pages that contain a listing of hotels in a city or a specific hotel's page. revenue generated from these users is reflected in our other segment below. 9 other segment our other segment accounted for 15% of our consolidated revenue in 2015 and consists of the following businesses: attractions. we provide, primarily through viator, information and services for researching and booking destination activities around the world. viator works with local operators to provide travelers with access to tours and activities in popular destinations worldwide, earning a commission for such service. in addition to its consumer-direct business, viator also provides local experiences to affiliate partners, including some of the world's top airlines, hotels and travel agencies. restaurants. we have several websites that provide online and mobile reservation services that connect restaurants with diners. these websites are primarily focused currently on the european and australian markets, primarily through lafourchette or thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl, www.besttables.com, and www.dimmi.com.au). thefork.com is an online restaurant booking platform with a network of restaurant partners primarily across europe and australia. lafourchette also offers management software solutions helping restaurants to maximize business by providing a flexible online booking, discount and data tool. we generate revenue primarily by charging a fee for each restaurant guest seated through the online reservation systems. vacation rentals. we offer individual property owners and property managers the ability to list their properties available for rental and connect with travelers using a subscription-based fee structure or a free-to-list, commission per booking based option. our vacation rental inventory currently includes full home rentals, condos, villas, beach rentals, cabins, cottages, and many other accommodation types. these properties are listed across a number of platforms, including tripadvisor vacation rentals, u.s.-based flipkey and vacation home rentals, and our european-based holiday lettings and niumba businesses. substantially all of the revenue reported in our other segment is subscription-based, transaction and other revenue. financial information about reportable segments and geographic information for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 our two most significant advertising partners, expedia and priceline, each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and combined accounted for 46%, 46% and 47% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. this concentration of revenue is recorded in our hotel segment for these reporting periods. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, expedia accounted for 11% and 15%, respectively, of our total accounts receivable. financial information related to our two reportable segments and geographic information required herein is contained in note 16 segment and geographic information , in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. employees as of december 31, 2015, we had 3,008 employees. of these employees, approximately 49% were based in the united states. we believe we have good relationships with our employees, including relationships with employees represented by international works councils or other similar organizations. seasonality the global travel market is large and traveler expenditures tend to follow a seasonal pattern. as such, expenditures by travel advertisers to market to potential travelers, and, therefore, our financial performance, tend to be seasonal as well. as a result, our third quarter tends to be our seasonal high, as it is a key period for travel research and trip-taking and our seasonal low generally occurs in the first and/or fourth quarter. significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. additional information we maintain a corporate website at ir.tripadvisor.com. except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the sec. we make available, free of charge through the investor relations section of our website, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a) or section 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. 10 we post our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers, senior financial officers and directors, on our corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. our code of busin ess conduct and ethics complies with item 406 of sec regulation s-k and the rules of nasdaq. we intend to disclose any changes to the code that affect the provisions required by item 406 of regulation s-k, and any waivers of the code of ethics for our exec utive officers, senior financial officers or directors, on our corporate website. ite m 1a. risk factors you should consider carefully the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report as they may impact our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations or financial condition. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to continue to increase visitors to our websites and to cost-effectively convert these visitors into repeat users or contributors, our advertising revenue could decline. the primary asset that we use to attract visitors to our websites and convert these visitors into repeat users is our ability to collect, create, organize and distribute high-quality, commercially valuable content that meets users' specific interests and enables them to use the content and interact with the supporting communities. there can be no assurances that we will continue to obtain content in a cost-effective manner or in a manner that meets rapidly changing consumer demand. any failure to obtain and manage such content in a manner that will engage users, or a failure to provide content and products that are perceived as useful, reliable and trustworthy, could adversely affect user experiences and reduce traffic to our websites, which would make our websites less attractive to advertisers. any change in the cost structure pursuant to which we obtain our content, in travelers' relative appreciation of user-based versus expert content, in the quality of our content versus other sites' content or any other changes that could reduce traffic to our websites would negatively impact our business and financial performance. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from advertising and any significant reduction in spending by advertisers could harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. we enter into master advertising contracts with our advertising partners, however, these agreements are generally limited to matters such as privacy and compliance, payment terms and conditions, termination and indemnities and most can be terminated by our partners at will or on short notice. our ability to grow advertising revenue with our existing or new advertising partners is dependent in large part on our ability to generate revenue for them. advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in such advertising does not generate sales leads, customers, bookings, or revenue and profit on a cost-effective basis. if we are unable to provide value to our advertising partners, they will likely stop placing ads on our websites, which would harm our revenues and business. we cannot guarantee that our current advertisers will fulfill their obligations under existing contracts, continue to advertise beyond the terms of existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts with us. click-based advertising accounts for the majority of our advertising revenue. any changes we make to our business model may impact our advertising revenue in ways that we do not expect. in addition, if new, more effective advertising models were to emerge, there can be no assurance that we will have the ability to offer these models, or offer them in an effective manner. furthermore, our cpc pricing for click-based advertising depends, in part, on competition between advertisers. if our large advertisers become less competitive with each other, merge with each other or with our competitors, focus more on per-click profit than on traffic volume, or are able to reduce cpcs, this could have an adverse impact on our click-based advertising revenue which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. expenditures by advertisers also tend to be cyclical, subject to variation based on budgetary constraints, project cancellation or delay, and to reflect overall economic conditions and buying patterns. if we are unable to generate advertising revenue due to factors outside of our control, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected. we rely on a relatively small number of significant advertising partners and any reduction in spending by or loss of these partners advertisers could seriously harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of advertising partners and rely significantly on our relationships. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2015, our two most significant advertising partners, expedia and 11 priceline (and their subsidiaries), accounted for a combined 46% of total revenue. while we enter into master advertising contracts with our partners, the terms of these agreements generally address matters such as privacy and c ompliance, payment terms and conditions, termination and indemnities and most of these contracts can be terminated by our partners at will or on short notice. if any of our significant advertisers were to cease or significantly curtail advertising on our websites, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenue over a relatively short period of time which would have a material impact on our business. our businesses could be negatively affected by changes in internet search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation. we rely heavily on internet search engines, such as google, to generate traffic to our websites, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords. search engines, including google, frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user's search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. in addition, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our websites to place lower in search query results. if a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our websites or those of our partners, or if competitive dynamics impact the cost or effectiveness of seo or sem in a negative manner, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected, potentially to a material extent. furthermore, our failure to successfully manage our seo and sem strategies could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic. in addition, to the extent that google or other leading search or metasearch engines that have a significant presence in our key markets, disintermediate ota's or travel content providers by offering comprehensive travel planning or shopping capabilities, or refer those leads to suppliers directly, or to other favored partners, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. to the extent these actions have a negative effect on our search traffic, whether on desktop, tablet or mobile devices, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. we continue to work aggressively on rolling out our instant booking feature despite anticipated and potential unanticipated challenges and risks which could have a negative impact on our business and financial performance. instant booking is a feature that enables users to book a hotel reservation directly with a hotel or online travel agency partner while remaining on the tripadvisor website. we have been gradually rolling this feature out in the u.s. since june 2014, and, in 2015, accelerated the rollout of instant booking for hotels across our u.s. and u.k. platforms to all users on all devices. we plan to continue rolling out this feature to additional international markets in 2016. we believe that allowing users to book directly online without leaving the tripadvisor site will result in a better user experience as well as, ultimately, additional revenue to the company. however, there are additional risks associated with this feature. our success depends in large part on our ability to maintain and expand relationships with partners in the travel industry, including hotel chains, online travel agencies and travel suppliers and other online travel partners. we are working with some of these partners to power the instant booking function on our website and believe that these partners will also benefit from this feature, through increased reservations and more direct relationships with travelers. some partners, however, may view this new functionality as directly competitive and take action that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. they could reduce or eliminate advertising revenue paid to us, charge for or otherwise restrict access to content, further reduce their average daily rates, decide not to make their travel inventory available to us, or decide not to provide accurate booking information. any of these actions could have an adverse impact on our business. the roll out of our new instant booking feature may not meet our expectations and may subject us to additional and ongoing operational risks. currently our instant booking feature is monetizing at a lower revenue per hotel shopper rate compared to our metasearch feature. while we expect to close this monetization gap, primarily by continuing to streamline our booking path to enhance user experience, persistently promoting the tripadvisor brand as a booking channel and continuing to seek partners with strong branding and supply channels, there is no guarantee that these initiatives will ultimately be successful and, if not, our revenue may be materially adversely affected. our instant booking revenue recorded under the consumption model is recognized at the time the traveler completes his or her stay. comparatively, revenue under the transaction model is recorded at the time the user books the stay and revenue from our metasearch feature is recorded when a traveler makes the click-through to the travel partners' websites. based on our internal data, we currently estimate the average time between a user booking a stay to consuming a stay is approximately three to five weeks, subject to seasonal variations. in future periods, greater contribution of revenue from our instant booking consumption model would result in additional revenue recognized at the time of a consumed stay and thus a shift in the timing of our revenue recognition. 12 we expect the instant booking functionality to significantly increase the n umber of transactions that will occur on our website. even though the transaction and customer care associated with these transactions are provided by our hotel partners, each reservation is completed on tripadvisor's instant booking platform. failure to effectively manage the process for instantly booking on our website and the safeguard data that is obtained during the course of arranging for such bookings could negatively impact our reputation and, consequently, our business. growth in the use of devices other than desktop computers may negatively affect our revenue and financial results. our content was originally designed for users accessing the internet on a desktop computer. the number of people who access the internet through devices other than desktops computers, including mobile phone devices and handheld computers such as notebooks and tablets, has increased substantially in the last few years. we anticipate that the rate of use of these computing devices will continue to grow. to address these growing user demands, we continue to extend our platform to develop mobile phone and tablet applications and our advertising revenues continue to grow. however, currently, we monetize users of these devices at a lower rate compared to users who access our websites through desktop computers. in addition, given the device sizes and technical limitations of these devices, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their hotel, restaurant and attractions activity. the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty are likely to become increasingly important. as a result, we continue to develop and improve upon our mobile app and websites and mobile monetization strategies. if we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile offerings are not used by consumers, our future growth and results of operations could be negatively impacted. declines or disruptions in the economy in general and travel industry in particular could adversely affect our businesses and financial performance. our businesses and financial performance are affected by the health of the global economy generally as well as the travel industry and leisure travel in particular. sales of travel services tend to decline or grow more slowly during economic downturns and recessions when consumers engage in less discretionary spending, are concerned about unemployment or inflation, have reduced access to credit or experience other concerns that reduce their ability or willingness to travel. the global economy may be adversely impacted by unforeseen events beyond our control including acts of terrorism, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters, political instability and health concerns (including epidemics or pandemics such as zika virus, ebola, h1n1 and sars), defaults on government debt, significant increases in fuel and energy costs, tax increases and other matters that could reduce discretionary spending, tightening of credit markets and further declines in consumer confidence. decreased travel expenditures could reduce the demand for our services, thereby causing a reduction in revenue. in addition, the uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on the value of our brand and consumer trust in our brand. if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, or if events occur that damage our reputation and brand, our business may be harmed. we believe that the tripadvisor brand has contributed significantly to our success and that maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to expanding our base of users, to creating content and to attracting advertisers. as a result, we invest significantly in brand marketing. we expect these investments to continue, or even increase, as a result of a variety of factors, including increased spending from competitors, the increasing costs of supporting multiple brands, expansion into geographies and products where our brands are less well known, inflation in media pricing, and the continued emergence and relative traffic share growth of search engines as destination sites for travelers. such efforts may not maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective or as efficient as they have been historically. if we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands or to generate demand in a cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. we receive significant media coverage in our various geographic markets. unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our practices relating to privacy and data protection, product changes, competitive pressures, the accuracy of user-generated content, product quality, litigation or regulatory activity, could adversely affect our reputation with our users and our advertisers. such negative publicity also could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement, and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. 13 we operate in an increasingly competitive global environment and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. we face competition for content, users, advertisers, online travel search and price comparison services (or hotel metasearch) and online reservations. we also face competition from large companies that also offer comprehensive on-line resources for destinations, lodging, attractions and restaurants. many of our competitors have significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do and may be able to leverage other aspects of their business to enable them to compete more effectively against us. more specifically: for content, we face competition from large online portals, social networking sites and search engines, such as google, facebook, yahoo and baidu, which competition will only increase should they choose to compete more directly with us in the travel review space, and create commercially valuable online content at significant scale. for example, google + local, with its aggregated reviews and local recommendations, competes with us and google's access to more comprehensive data regarding user search queries through its search algorithms gives it a significant competitive advantage over other companies in the industry, including us. in addition, if significant numbers of users adopt facebook's newly released graph search to get travel recommendations, it could have the effect of reducing traffic and user engagement on tripadvisor. we face competition from online travel agents, such as expedia and priceline (and their subsidiaries), and this competition may increase to the extent that these online travel agents accumulate and develop a comprehensive offering of travel-related reviews and resources. we face competition from travel service providers such as major hotel companies, airlines and rental car companies, many of which have their own websites to which they drive business. major hotel companies may also attempt to improve their competitive position by offering lower room rates, better room availability or additional features or amenities through their reservation service than are available through services like ours. we also face competition from wholesalers, tour operators, traditional offline travel agencies and operators of travel industry reservation databases such as galileo, travelport, amadeus and sabre. in addition, we compete with newspapers, magazines and other traditional media companies that provide offline and online advertising opportunities. in our vacation rental business, we face competition from several companies, including homeaway (a subsidiary of expedia) and airbnb, inc., some of whom have a larger inventory of rooms available. in our restaurant reservation and attractions business, we face competition from certain companies like opentable (a subsidiary of priceline), seatme (which is owned by yelp) and table8 (which was recently launched by amazon) as well as other regional players operating in various parts of the world. many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources compared to us and have expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating internet traffic as well as large client bases. we expect to face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the travel advertising market. certain of the companies we do business with, including some of our click-based advertising partners, are also our competitors. the consolidation of our competitors and partners, including expedia (through its acquisitions of trivago, orbitz, travelocity, and homeaway) and priceline (through its acquisitions of kayak and opentable), may affect our relative competitiveness and our partner relationships. competition and consolidation could result in higher traffic acquisition costs, reduced margins on our advertising services, loss of market share, reduced customer traffic to our websites and reduced advertising by travel companies on our websites. for example, google has taken steps to appeal more directly to travel customers, which could lead to diversion of customer traffic to their own websites or those of a favored partner, or undermine our ability to obtain prominent placement in paid or unpaid search results at a reasonable cost, or at all. competition in our industry may result in pricing pressure, loss of market share or decreased member engagement, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. we are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations and other proceedings involving competition, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, free speech issues, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. in addition, our businesses face intellectual property litigation that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell products and services. 14 such claims, suits, and government investigations are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of le gal costs, diversion of management resources, injunctions or damage awards and other factors. determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. it is possible that a resolution of one o r more such proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. these proceedings could also result in reputatio nal harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or other field action, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are dependent upon the quality of traffic in our network to provide value to online advertisers, and any failure in our quality control could have a material adverse effect on the value of our websites to our advertisers and adversely affect our revenue. we use technology and processes to monitor the quality of and to identify metrics associated with, the internet traffic that we deliver to online advertisers. these metrics are used to not only identify the value of advertising on our website but also to identify low quality clicks such as non-human processes, including robots, spiders or other software; the mechanical automation of clicking; and other types of invalid clicks or click fraud. even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low-quality traffic, or traffic that online advertisers deem to be invalid, will be delivered to such online advertisers. as a result, we may be required to credit amounts owed to us by our advertisers. furthermore, low-quality or invalid traffic may be detrimental to our relationships with advertisers, and could adversely affect our advertising pricing and revenue. we rely on assumptions and estimates and data to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. we believe that certain metrics are key to our business, including unique visitors, hotel shoppers, revenue per hotel shopper, downloads of our mobile apps, and number of reviews and opinions. as the industry in which we operate continues to evolve and as our business continues to evolve, so too might the metrics by which we evaluate our business. while these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates, our internal tools have a number of limitations and our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time. for example, a single person may have multiple accounts or browse the internet on multiple browsers or devices, some users may restrict our ability to accurately identify them across visits, some mobile applications automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no user action, and we are not always able to capture user information on all of our platforms. as such, the calculations of our unique visitors may not accurately reflect the number of people actually visiting our platforms. also if the internal tools we use to track these metrics under-count or over-count performance or contain algorithm or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. in addition, historically, certain metrics were calculated by independent third parties. accordingly readers should not place undue reliance on these numbers. more recently, we started to calculate metrics, primarily using internal tools, which are not independently verified by a third party. we continue to improve upon our tools and methodologies to capture data and believe that our current metrics are more accurate; however, the improvement of our tools and methodologies could cause inconsistency between current data and previously reported data, which could confuse investors or lead to questions about the integrity of our data. we rely on information technology to operate our business and remain competitive, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our businesses. we depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems. as our operations grow in size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining or improving the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to competitive service and product offerings. the emergence of alternative platforms such as smartphone and tablet computing devices and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology. new developments in other areas, such as cloud computing, could also make it easier for competition to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. in addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. if we do not continue to innovate and provide tools and services that are useful to travelers, we may not remain competitive, and our business and financial performance could suffer. our success depends in part on continued innovation to provide features and services that make our websites and smartphone and tablet computing applications useful for travelers. our competitors are continually developing innovations in online travel-related services and features. as a result, we are continually working to improve our business model and user experience in order to drive user 15 traffic and conversion dates. we can give no assurances that the changes we make will yield the benefits we expect and will not have adverse impacts that we did not anticipate. if we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services and quality features that travelers want to use, e xisting users may become dissatisfied and use competitors' offerings and we may be unable to attract additional users, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our culture emphasizes rapid innovation and prioritizes user engagement over short-term financial results. we operate in a culture that encourages rapid development and release of new and improved products, which may at times result in unintended consequences or decisions that are poorly received by users or advertisers. our culture also prioritizes user engagement, or website stickiness, over short-term financial results. we have taken actions in the past and may continue to make product decisions going forward that have the effect of reducing our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions benefit the aggregate user experience, conversion rates and/or cpc pricing, thereby ultimately improving our financial performance over the long-term. the short-term reductions in revenue or profitability could be more severe than we anticipate or these decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with users and advertisers, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. the online vacation rental market is rapidly evolving and if we fail to predict the manner in which the market develops, our business and prospects may suffer. we offer vacation rental services on our tripadvisor-branded sites as well as through our u.s.-based flipkey and vacation home rentals and european-based holiday lettings and niumba businesses. the online vacation rental market is rapidly evolving in many respects, including acceptance of the business model by travelers, property owners and property managers; from a business and marketing perspective as well as the regulatory environment. we operate in various disparate jurisdictions and markets and have limited insight into trends that may develop in those markets and may affect our business. since we began offering such services, there have been and continue to be significant business, marketing and regulatory developments. operating in new and untested jurisdictions requires significant management attention and financial resources. we cannot assure that our expansion efforts will be successful, and the investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth may not produce the desired levels of revenue or profitability. if we fail to attract and maintain a critical mass of vacation rental listings and travelers, our vacation rental marketplaces will become less valuable and this may have a negative impact on our business. in our vacation rental business, revenue is generated when owners and/or travelers pay us fees upon booking a transaction, owners or managers pay us fees to list and market vacation rental properties to users who visit the websites comprising our marketplace and property managers pay us fees for email and telephone leads from potential travelers or fees upon booking a transaction. as a result, our success in this area primarily depends on our ability to attract owners, managers, travelers and advertisers to our marketplace. if property owners and managers do not perceive the benefits of marketing their properties through our websites, or elect to list them with a competitor instead of listing with us, our volume of new listings and listing renewals may suffer. as a result, we may be unable to offer a sufficient supply and variety of vacation properties to attract travelers to our websites. larger competitors already exist in the vacation rental space, with significantly more users, listed properties and financial resources. we may be subject to claims that we violated intellectual property rights of others and these claims can be extremely costly to defend and could require us to pay significant damages and limit our ability to operate. companies in the internet and technology industries, and other patent and trademark holders seeking to profit from royalties in connection with grants of licenses, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of those intellectual property rights. we have received in the past, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties' intellectual property rights. any intellectual property claim against us, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to settle or litigate and could divert management's attention and other resources. these claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology or content found to be in violation of another party's rights. we might be required or may opt to seek a license for rights to intellectual property held by others, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, or content, which could require significant effort and expense and make us less competitive in the relevant market. any of these results could harm our business and financial performance. 16 investment in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business and present new challenges and risks. we have invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, greater than expected liabilities and expenses, inadequate return of capital, and issues not discovered in our investigations and evaluations of those strategies and acquisitions. we may decide to make minority investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have limited or no management or operational control. the controlling person in such case may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and decisions of the company or venture in which we invested may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment. further, we may issue shares of our common stock in these transactions, which could result in dilution to our stockholders. if the businesses we have acquired or invested in do not perform as expected or we are unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses, our operating results and prospects could be harmed. we have acquired a number of businesses in the past and our future growth may depend, in part, on future acquisitions, any of which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. there are certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions that may have a material impact on our business including, but not limited to, the following: expected and unexpected costs incurred in identifying and pursuing acquisitions, and performing due diligence on potential acquisition targets that may or may not be successful; use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding acquisitions that may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences; diversion of management's attention or other resources from our existing business; difficulties and expenses in integrating the operations, products, technology, privacy protection systems, information systems or personnel of the acquired company; the assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the acquired company, including costs associated with litigation and other claims relating to the acquired company; failure of any acquired company to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows or to retain key management or employees; failure to generate adequate returns on acquisitions and investments; entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience and increased complexity in our business; impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from acquisitions; and adverse market reaction to acquisitions. moreover, we rely heavily on the representations and warranties provided to us by the sellers of acquired companies, including as they relate to ownership and rights in intellectual property and compliance with laws and contractual requirements. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand, results of operations and business could be harmed. we have experienced rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which places substantial demands on management and our operational infrastructure. we continue to make substantial investments in our technology, sales and marketing and community management organizations. as we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, including employees in international markets, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. if we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and business. our international operations involve additional risks and our exposure to these risks increases as our business continues to expand globally. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states and continue to expand our international operations. many of these regions have different economic conditions, languages, currencies, consumer expectations, levels of consumer acceptance and 17 use of the internet for commerce, legislation, regulatory environm ents (including labors laws and customs), tax laws and levels of political stability. we are subject to associated risks typical of international businesses, including, but not limited to, the following: political instability; threatened or actual acts of terrorism; ability to comply with additional laws applicable to companies operating internationally as well as local laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and u.k. bribery act, data privacy requirements, labor laws and anti-competition regulations; diminished ability to legally enforce contractual rights; increased risk and limits on enforceability of intellectual property rights; restrictions on, or adverse consequences related to, the withdrawal of non-u.s. investment and earnings; restrictions on repatriation of cash as well as restrictions on investments in operations in certain countries; financial risk arising from transactions in multiple currencies as well as currency exchange restrictions; slower adoption of the internet as an advertising, broadcast and commerce medium in certain of those markets as compared to the united states; difficulties in managing staff and operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences; and uncertainty regarding liability for services, content and intellectual property rights, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of precedent. we have a business operating in china, which creates particular risks and uncertainties relating to the laws in china. the laws and regulations of china restrict foreign investment in areas including air-ticketing and travel agency services, internet content provision, mobile communication and related businesses. although we have established effective control of our chinese business through a series of agreements, future developments in the interpretation or enforcement of chinese laws and regulations or a dispute relating to these agreements could restrict our ability to operate or restructure this business or to engage in strategic transactions. the success of this business, and of any future investments in china, is subject to risks and uncertainties regarding the application, development and interpretation of china's laws and regulations. furthermore, we are also accumulating a greater portion of our cash flows in foreign jurisdictions than previously, which we consider indefinitely reinvested. the repatriation of such funds for use in the united states, including for corporate purposes such as acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or debt refinancings, may result in additional u.s. income tax expense and higher cost for such capital. the loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior corporate management and other key employees. in particular, the contributions of stephen kaufer, our president and chief executive officer, are critical to our overall management. we cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of these individuals, and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. in addition, competition remains intense for well-qualified employees in certain aspects of our business, including software engineers, developers, product management and development personnel, and other technology professionals. our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. if we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining or motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. a failure to comply with current laws, rules and regulations or changes to such laws, rules and regulations and other legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business or financial performance. our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business, including those relating to the internet and online commerce, internet advertising, consumer protection, data security and privacy. unfavorable changes could decrease demand for products and services, limit marketing methods and capabilities, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. 18 for example, there is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce that may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, data security, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of products and services. our current business partner arrangements with third p arties, including facebook, could be negatively impacted to the extent that more restrictive privacy laws or regulations are enacted, particularly in the united states or european union. in addition, enforcement authorities in the united states continue to rely on their authority under existing consumer protection laws to take action against companies relating to data privacy and security practices. the growth and development of online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws an d more aggressive enforcement efforts, which may impose additional burdens on online businesses generally. we also have been subject, and we will likely be subject in the future, to inquiries from time to time from regulatory bodies concerning compliance with consumer protection, competition, tax and travel industry-specific laws and regulations. the failure of our businesses to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and/or proceedings against us by governmental agencies and/or consumers, which if material, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, if such laws and regulations are not enforced equally against other competitors in a particular market, our compliance with such laws may put us a competitive disadvantage vis- -vis competitors who do not comply with such requirements. the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations, or the new interpretation of existing laws, rules and regulations, in each case that restrict or otherwise unfavorably impact the ability or manner in which we provide services could require us to change certain aspects of our business, operations and commercial relationships to ensure compliance, which could decrease demand for services, reduce revenues, increase costs and/or subject the company to additional liabilities. we cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected from copying or use by others, including potential competitors. our websites rely on content, brands and technology, much of which is proprietary. we protect our proprietary content, brands and technology by relying on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents and confidentiality agreements. in connection with our license agreements with third parties, we seek to control access to, and the use and distribution of, proprietary technology, content and brands. even with these precautions, it may be possible for another party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, content or brands without authorization or to develop similar technology, content or brands independently. effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our services are made available, and policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our business or ability to compete. we cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or infringement our intellectual property. any misappropriation or violation of our rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. furthermore, we may need to go to court or other tribunals or administrative bodies in order to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. these proceedings might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. our failure to protect our intellectual property in a cost-effective or effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to protect our technology, content and brands. we currently license from third parties and incorporate the technologies and content into our websites. as we continue to introduce new services that incorporate new technologies and content, we may be required to license additional technology, or content. we cannot be sure that such technology or content will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. system interruption and the lack of redundancy in some of our internal information systems may harm our business. we rely on computer systems to deliver content and services. we have experienced and may in the future experience system interruptions that make some or all of these systems unavailable or prevent us from efficiently providing content and services to users and third parties. significant interruptions, outages or delays in internal systems, or systems of third parties that we rely upon, or deterioration in the performance of any such systems, would impair our ability to process transactions or display content and decrease the quality of the services we offer to travelers and users. these interruptions could include security intrusions and attacks on our systems for fraud or service interruption (called denial of service or bot attacks). if we were to experience frequent or persistent system failures, our business, reputation, and brand could be harmed. we do not have a completely formalized or comprehensive disaster recovery plan in every geographic region in which we conduct business and our backup systems and disaster recovery, business continuity /or contingency plans for certain critical aspects of our operations or business processes may not be sufficient. fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of god, computer viruses, electronic intrusion attempts from both external and internal sources and similar events or disruptions may damage or impact or interrupt computer or communications systems or business processes at any time. although we have put measures in place to protect certain portions of our facilities and assets, any of these 19 events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing content and services to users, travelers and/or third parties for a significant period of time. if we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently and significantly harmed. in addition, remediation may be costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such costs. moreover, the costs of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved stability and redundancy may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. our processing, storage and use personal information and other data exposes us to risks of external and internal security breaches and could give rise to liabilities. there are numerous laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other consumer data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. in addition, the security of data when engaging in electronic commerce is essential to maintaining consumer and travel service provider confidences in our services. we strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other user data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements that could harm our reputation and cause our customers and members to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, brand, market share and results of operations. the regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. the u.s. congress and federal agencies, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, are reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection and use of information concerning consumer behavior on the internet. various u.s. courts are also considering the applicability of existing federal and state statutes, including computer trespass and wiretapping laws, to the collection and exchange of information online. in addition, the european union is in the process of proposing reforms to its existing data protection legal framework, which may result in a greater compliance burden for companies, including us, with users in europe and increased costs of compliance. potential security breaches to our systems, whether resulting from internal or external sources, could significantly harm our business. a party, whether internal or external, that is able to circumvent our security systems could misappropriate user information or proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. in the past, we have experienced denial-of-service type attacks on our systems that have made portions of our websites unavailable for short periods of time as well as unauthorized access of our systems and data. we have acquired a number of companies over the years and may continue to do so in the future. while we make significant efforts to address any information technology security issues with respect to our acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate the acquired businesses. we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to investigate and address problems caused by breaches, and reductions in website availability could cause a loss of substantial business volume during the occurrence of any such incident. because the techniques used to sabotage security change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage to reputation, exposure to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability due to regulatory penalties and sanctions. security breaches could also cause travelers and potential users to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. failure to adequately protect against attacks or intrusions, whether for our own systems or systems of vendors, could expose us to security breaches that could have an adverse impact on financial performance. we also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the internet. much of our business is conducted with third party marketing affiliates or, more recently, though business partners powering our instant booking feature. in addition, we frequently use third parties to process credit card payments. a security breach at such third party could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. in addition, such third parties may not comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to liability. we face increased risks as the level of our debt increases. on june 26, 2015, we entered into a new credit agreement with respect to a $1 billion five-year revolving credit facility. these arrangements include restrictive covenants that may impact the way we manage our business and may limit our ability to secure significant additional financing in the future on favorable terms. our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. in light of periodic uncertainty in the capital and 20 credit markets, there can be no assurance that sufficient financing wi ll be available on desirable or even any terms to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or extraordinary actions or that counterparties in any such financings would honor their contractual commitments. we have indebtedness which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we currently have outstanding approximately $200 million in long-term debt. risks relating to our indebtedness include: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; making it more difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; possibly placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms that we find acceptable; and exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our outstanding debt is expected to be subject to variable rates of interest. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our revolving credit facility will allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations; however, there is no assurance that additional financing will be available to us on terms favorable to us, if at all. in addition, if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. the agreements that govern our revolving credit facility contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants. the failure to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. we are party to a credit agreement providing for the revolving credit facility. the agreements that govern the revolving credit facility contain various covenants, including those that limit our ability to, among other things: incur indebtedness; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; enter into certain asset sale transactions, including partial or full spin-off transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to optimally operate our business. in addition, our revolving credit facility requires that we meet certain financial tests, including a leverage ratio test. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facility may result in an event of default under the agreements governing such facilities. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the debt incurred thereunder. in addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds (including periodic rollovers of existing borrowings). our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors that could have a material impact on our financial results and could increase the volatility of those results. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. in the event we incur net income in certain jurisdictions but incur losses in other jurisdictions, we generally cannot offset the income from one jurisdiction with the loss from another, which could increase our effective tax rate. furthermore, significant judgment is required to calculate our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. by virtue of our previously filed separate company and consolidated income tax returns with expedia we are routinely under audit by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions 21 and accruals. the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. additionally, we earn an increasing portion of our income, and accumulate a greater portion of cash flow, in foreign jurisdictions, which we consider indefinitely reinvested. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates and incremental cash tax payments. in addition, there have been proposals to amend u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact the manner in which u.s. companies are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation will pass, if enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our u.s. tax expense and cash flows. we are subject to fluctuation in foreign currency exchange risk. we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the united states but report our results in u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates, particularly those related to the euro, british pound sterling, singapore dollar, australian dollar, and chinese renminbi. these exposures include, but are not limited to re-measurement of gains and losses from changes in the value of foreign denominated assets and liabilities; translation gains and losses on foreign subsidiary financial results that are translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation; and planning risk related to changes in exchange rates between the time we prepare our annual and quarterly forecasts and when actual results occur. depending on the size of the exposures and the relative movements of exchange rates, if we were to choose not to hedge or were to fail to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial statements and financial condition. as seen in some recent periods, in the event of severe volatility in exchange rates the impact of these exposures can increase, and the impact on results of operations can be more pronounced. in addition, the current environment and the increasingly global nature of our business have made hedging these exposures both more complex and costly. we hedge certain short-term foreign currency exposures with the purchase of forward exchange contracts. these hedge contracts only help mitigate the impact of changes in foreign currency rates that occur during the term of the related contract period and carry risks of counter-party failure. there can be no assurance that our hedges will have their intended effects. significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates can affect consumer travel behavior. volatility in foreign exchange rates and its impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the spin-off, we could be subject to significant tax liabilities. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia entered into in connection with the spin-off, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. we continue to be responsible for potential tax liabilities in connection with consolidated income tax returns filed with expedia prior to or in connection with the spin-off. we are currently under an irs audit for the 2009 and 2010 tax years, and have various ongoing state income tax audits. these audits include questioning of the timing and the amount of income and deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. the outcome of these matters or any other audits could subject us to significant tax liabilities. liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. currently is a controlling stockholder. liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip, effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of our stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of our common stock of 25% of the members of our board of directors and matters as to which delaware law requires separate class votes, including but not limited to, corporate transactions such as mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets, the authorization or issuance of new equity or debt securities and determinations with respect to our business direction and policies). ltrip, which has investments in other companies, may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders and they may vote in a way with which our other stockholders may not agree or that may be adverse to other stockholders' interests. ltrip is not restricted from investing in other businesses involving or related to our business. liberty's control of us, as well as the existing provisions of our organizational documents and delaware law, may discourage or prevent a change of control of us, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. 22 we are currently relying on the controlled company exemption under nasdaq stock market listing rules, pursuant to which controlled companies are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements otherwise applicable under nasdaq listing rules. the nasdaq stock market listing rules exempt controlled companies, or companies of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company, from certain corporate governance requirements, including those requirements that: a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we currently rely on the controlled company exemption from the above requirements. accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other nasdaq-listed companies with respect to corporate governance for so long as we rely on these exemptions from the corporate governance requirements. if we are unable to successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and our stock price and business may be adversely impacted. as a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. additionally, we are required to disclose in our annual reports on form 10-k our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a registered public accounting firm's attestation report on this assessment. if we are not successful in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, there could be inaccuracies or omissions in the consolidated financial information we are required to file with the sec. additionally, even if there are no inaccuracies or omissions, we could be required to publicly disclose the conclusion of our management that our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. these events could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, adversely impact our stock price, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits that could be costly to resolve and distract management's attention, limit our ability to access the capital markets or cause our stock to be delisted from nasdaq or any other securities exchange on which we are then listed. the market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may face negative pressure. our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility. the market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this section and other factors beyond our control. factors affecting the trading price of our common stock could include: quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; failure to meet market expectations; the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program which could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock; developments in our industry, including changes in governmental regulations; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors related to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. 23 future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price. for the period ended december 31, 2015, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on nasdaq was approximately 2.0 million shares. if our existing stockholders or their distributees sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of the common stock could decrease significantly. the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the trading price of our common stock. in addition, certain stockholders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. if ltrip or some other stockholder sells substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if there is a perception in the public market that ltrip might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. a decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. some of these provisions: authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; and prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies or calling special stockholder meetings. we are subject to the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. these and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we manage our exposure to these risks through established policies and procedures and by assessing the anticipated near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow and market exposures from changes in interest and foreign exchange rates. interest rates our current exposure to changes in interest rates relate primarily to our investment portfolio and the outstanding borrowings on our 2015 credit facility. our interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in u.s. interest rates and libor. changes in interest rates affect the interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value of those securities, as well as the amount of interest we pay on our outstanding debt. we currently invest our excess cash in cash deposits at major global banks, money market mutual funds and marketable securities. our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of our current investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. based on our investment positions as of december 31, 2015, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an approximate $1 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. as of december 31, 2015, we had $200 million of debt under our 2015 credit facility, which has a variable rate. the variable interest rate on the 2015 credit facility is based on current assumptions, leverage and libor rates. based on our current outstanding balance through december 31, 2015, a 25 basis point change in our interest rate on the 2015 credit facility would result in an increase or decrease to interest expense that would be less than $1 million per annum. we currently do not hedge our interest rate risk; however, we are continually evaluating the interest rate market, and if we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. we did not experience any significant impact from changes in interest rates for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 or 2013. foreign currency exchange rates we conduct business in certain international markets, primarily the european union, the united kingdom, singapore, australia and china. because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign exchange rates. some of our foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their respective local currencies other than the u.s. dollar (primarily in british pounds). consequently, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the translation of foreign financial statements into u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency, or functional currency, into u.s. dollars upon consolidation. if the u.s. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income. similarly, our net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income will decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against local currency. the effect of foreign exchange on our business historically has varied from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so, potentially materially. a hypothetical 10% decrease of the foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, or strengthening of the u.s. dollar, would generate an unrealized loss of approximately $22 million related to a decrease in our net assets held in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar as of december 31, 2015, which would be initially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet. in addition, foreign exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses. we recognize these transactional gains and losses (primarily euro currency transactions) in our consolidated 54 statements of operations and have recorded foreign exchange losses of $6 million, $11 million and $0 million for th e years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. we currently manage our exposure to foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures. to the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies, as well as, using derivative financial instruments. we use foreign exchange derivative contracts to manage certain short-term foreign currency risk to try and reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. our objective is to hedge only those currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified and that may result in significant impacts to our cash or the consolidated statement of operations. our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures. we account for our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. our current derivative contracts principally address foreign exchange fluctuation risk for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, we had outstanding forward currency contracts not designated as hedging contracts with a notional value of $25 million and $20 million, respectively. these contracts had maturities of less than 90 days. the fair value of these derivatives at both december 31, 2015 and 2014, were not material. for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, gains related to our derivatives contracts were recorded to interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations of $2 million and $1 million, respectively. a hypothetical 10% change of the foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant, would result in an approximate change of less than $3 million in the fair value of our outstanding forward currency contracts at december 31, 2015, and a resulting equivalent gain or loss on our consolidated statement of operations. refer to note 5 financial instruments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for further detail on our derivative instruments. as we increase our operations in international markets, our exposure to potentially volatile movements in foreign currency exchange rates increases. the economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. these changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our foreign currency risk strategies. 55 ite m 8. financial statements and supplementary data index to financial statements and supplementary data: report of independent registered public accounting firm - kpmg, llp 57 report of independent registered public accounting firm - ernst &amp; young, llp 58 consolidated statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 59 consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 60 consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2015 and 201 4 61 consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 62 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 63 notes to consolidated financial statements 64 56 rep ort of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders tripadvisor, inc.: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the two year period ended december 31, 2015. these consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the two year period ended december 31, 2015, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), tripadvisor, inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso), and our report dated february 18, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. /s/ kpmg llp boston, massachusetts february 18, 2016 57 report of independent re gistered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders tripadvisor, inc.: we have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows of tripadvisor, inc. for the year ended december 31, 2013. these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of tripadvisor, inc. for the year ended december 31, 2013, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. /s/ ernst &amp; young llp boston, massachusetts february 11, 2014, except for note 2 and note 16, as to which the date is february 17, 2015 58 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of operations (in millions, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 revenue $ 1,492 $ 1,246 $ 945 costs and expenses: cost of revenue (1) 58 40 18 selling and marketing (2) 692 502 368 technology and content (2) 207 171 131 general and administrative (2) (note 12) 210 128 98 depreciation 57 47 30 amortization of intangible assets 36 18 6 total costs and expenses 1,260 906 651 operating income 232 340 294 other income (expense): interest expense (10 ) (9 ) (10 ) interest income and other, net (note 17) 17 (9 ) - total other income (expense), net 7 (18 ) (10 ) income before income taxes 239 322 284 provision for income taxes (41 ) (96 ) (79 ) net income $ 198 $ 226 $ 205 earnings per share attributable to common stockholders (note 2): basic $ 1.38 $ 1.58 $ 1.44 diluted $ 1.36 $ 1.55 $ 1.41 weighted average common shares outstanding (note 2): basic 144 143 143 diluted 146 146 145 (1) excludes amortization expense as follows: amortization of acquired technology included in amortization of intangibles assets $ 9 $ 4 $ 1 amortization of website development costs included in depreciation 37 30 20 $ 46 $ 34 $ 21 (2) includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: selling and marketing $ 16 $ 13 $ 11 technology and content $ 28 $ 27 $ 21 general and administrative $ 28 $ 23 $ 17 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 59 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions) year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 net income $ 198 $ 226 $ 205 other comprehensive income (loss): foreign currency translation adjustments (1) (33 ) (31 ) 1 reclassification adjustment on sale of business included in total other income (expense), net (note 3) 1 - - total other comprehensive (loss) income (32 ) (31 ) 1 comprehensive income $ 166 $ 195 $ 206 (1) foreign currency translation adjustments exclude income taxes due to our practice and intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in those operations. see note 14 stockholders' equity . the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 60 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated balance sheets (in millions, except share and per share data) december 31, december 31, 2015 2014 assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents (note 5) $ 614 $ 455 short-term marketable securities (note 5) 47 108 accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $6 and $7 at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014, respectively (note 2) 180 151 prepaid expenses and other current assets 24 23 total current assets 865 737 long-term marketable securities (note 5) 37 31 property and equipment, net (note 6) 247 195 intangible assets, net (note 7) 176 214 goodwill (note 7) 732 734 other long-term assets 71 37 total assets $ 2,128 $ 1,948 liabilities and stockholders' equity current liabilities: accounts payable $ 10 $ 19 deferred merchant payables (note 2) 105 93 deferred revenue 64 57 current portion of debt (note 8) 1 78 taxes payable (note 9) 9 20 accrued expenses and other current liabilities (note 10) 123 114 total current liabilities 312 381 deferred income taxes, net (note 9) 15 29 other long-term liabilities (note 11) 189 154 long-term debt (note 8) 200 259 total liabilities 716 823 commitments and contingencies (note 12) stockholders' equity: (note 14) preferred stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 100,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 0 and 0 common stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 1,600,000,000 shares issued: 133,836,242 and 132,315,465 shares outstanding: 132,443,111 and 130,121,292 class b common stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 400,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 12,799,999 and 12,799,999 additional paid-in capital 741 673 retained earnings 826 628 accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (63 ) (31 ) treasury stock-common stock, at cost, 1,393,131 and 2,194,173 shares (92 ) (145 ) total stockholders' equity 1,412 1,125 total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 2,128 $ 1,948 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 61 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity (in millions, except share data) accumulated additional other class b paid-in retained comprehensive common stock common stock capital earnings (loss) income treasury stock total shares amount shares amount shares amount balance as of december 31, 2012 130,060,138 $ - 12,799,999 $ - $ 531 $ 197 $ (1 ) - $ - $ 727 net income 205 205 other comprehensive income 1 1 issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 1,477,660 - 27 27 repurchase of common stock (2,120,709 ) (145 ) (145 ) tax benefits on equity awards, net 12 12 minimum withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (14 ) (14 ) stock-based compensation 52 52 balance as of december 31, 2013 131,537,798 $ - 12,799,999 $ - $ 608 $ 402 $ - (2,120,709 ) $ (145 ) $ 865 net income 226 226 other comprehensive loss (31 ) (31 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 777,667 - 3 3 tax benefits on equity awards, net 20 20 minimum withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (33 ) (33 ) fair value of stock options assumed in connection with acquisition 5 5 stock-based compensation 70 70 other (73,464 ) - balance as of december 31, 2014 132,315,465 $ - 12,799,999 $ - $ 673 $ 628 $ (31 ) (2,194,173 ) $ (145 ) $ 1,125 net income 198 198 other comprehensive loss (32 ) (32 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 1,520,777 - 12 12 issuance of treasury stock as charitable contribution (note 12) 14 801,042 53 67 tax benefits on equity awards, net 35 35 minimum withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (73 ) (73 ) stock-based compensation 80 80 balance as of december 31, 2015 133,836,242 $ - 12,799,999 $ - $ 741 $ 826 $ (63 ) (1,393,131 ) $ (92 ) $ 1,412 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 62 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions) year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 operating activities: net income $ 198 $ 226 $ 205 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development 57 47 30 amortization of intangible assets 36 18 6 stock-based compensation expense 72 63 49 non-cash contribution to charitable foundation (note 12) 67 - - gain on sale of business (note 3) (20 ) - - deferred tax (benefit) expense (37 ) (17 ) 5 excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation (36 ) (20 ) (12 ) other, net 9 18 8 changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions and dispositions: accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets (31 ) (26 ) (12 ) accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities 13 18 17 deferred merchant payables 15 (9 ) 17 income taxes, net 32 60 27 deferred revenue 7 9 9 net cash provided by operating activities 382 387 349 investing activities: capital expenditures, including internal-use software and website development (109 ) (81 ) (55 ) acquisitions, net of cash acquired (29 ) (331 ) (35 ) proceeds from sale of business, net of cash sold 25 - - purchases of marketable securities (205 ) (251 ) (432 ) sales of marketable securities 187 336 175 maturities of marketable securities 71 93 151 net cash used in investing activities (60 ) (234 ) (196 ) financing activities: repurchase of common stock - - (145 ) proceeds from chinese credit facilities 4 13 10 payments to chinese credit facilities (41 ) (3 ) (15 ) principal payments on term loan (300 ) (40 ) (40 ) proceeds from revolving credit facility, net of financing costs 287 - - payments to revolving credit facility (90 ) - - proceeds from exercise of stock options 12 3 24 payment of minimum withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (73 ) (33 ) (14 ) excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation 36 20 12 other financing activities, net 12 (1 ) (2 ) net cash used in financing activities (153 ) (41 ) (170 ) effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (10 ) (8 ) 1 net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 159 104 (16 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 455 351 367 cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 614 $ 455 $ 351 supplemental disclosure of cash flow information cash paid during the period for income taxes, net of refunds $ 43 $ 54 $ 50 cash paid during the period for interest $ 7 $ 7 $ 8 supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities: capitalization of construction in-process related to build to suit lease $ 6 $ 52 $ 8 capital expenditures incurred but not yet paid primarily related to build to suit lease $ - $ 10 $ - the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 63 tripadvisor, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements note 1: organization and business description we refer to tripadvisor, inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiaries as tripadvisor, the company, us, we and our in these notes to the consolidated financial statements. on december 20, 2011 expedia, inc. completed a spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly traded delaware corporation. we refer to this transaction as the spin-off. tripadvisor's common stock began trading on the nasdaq as an independent public company on december 21, 2011 under the trading symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of 4,799,848 shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates (the stock purchase ). as a result, liberty beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was indirectly acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. ( ltrip ) by means of a spin-off (the liberty spin-off ). in the liberty spin-off, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. as a result of the liberty spin-off, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company and 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor is now held by ltrip. as of december 31, 2015, ltrip beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock, which shares constitute 13.7% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 21.3% of the outstanding common stock (calculated in accordance with rule 13d-3). because each share of class b common stock generally is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing approximately 56.1% of our voting power. description of business tripadvisor is an online travel company, empowering users to plan and book the perfect trip. tripadvisor's travel research platform aggregates reviews and opinions of members about destinations, accommodations, activities and attractions, and restaurants throughout the world so that our users have access to trusted advice wherever their trips take them. our platform not only helps users plan their trips with our unique user-generated content, but also enables users to compare real-time pricing and availability so that they can book hotels, vacation rentals, flights, activities and attractions, and restaurants. our flagship brand is tripadvisor. tripadvisor-branded websites include tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the website in 46 countries worldwide. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we manage and operate 23 other media brands, connected by the common goal of providing comprehensive travel planning resources across the travel sector, which include; www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.everytrail.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.gateguru.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.independenttraveler.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl, www.besttables.com, and www.dimmi.com.au), www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.smartertravel.com, www.tingo.com, www.travelpod.com, www.tripbod.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, www.viator.com, and www.virtualtourist.com. we derive the substantial portion of our revenue through the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. in addition, we earn revenue from a combination of: subscription-based and transaction-based offerings from our business listings products; subscription and commission-based offerings from our vacation rentals products; room reservations sold through our jetsetter and tingo brands; destination activities primarily sold through viator; and online restaurant reservations booked primarily through lafourchette, or thefork.com. we have two reportable segments: hotel and other. our other segment consists of the aggregation of three operating segments, which include our vacation rentals, restaurants and attractions businesses. our operating segments are determined based on how our chief operating decision maker manages our business, regularly assesses information and evaluates performance for operating decision-making purposes, including allocation of resources. for further information on our reportable segments see note 16 segment and geographic information , in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. 64 seasonality the global travel market is large and traveler expenditures tend to follow a seasonal pattern. as such, expenditures by travel advertisers to market to potential travelers, and, therefore, our financial performance, tend to be seasonal as well. as a result, our third quarter tends to be our seasonal high, as it is a key period for travel research and trip-taking, and our seasonal low generally occurs in the first and/or fourth quarter. significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. note 2: significant accounting policies basis of presentation the accompanying consolidated financial statements include tripadvisor, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and entities we control, or in which we have a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary of expected cash profits or losses. we have eliminated significant intercompany transactions and accounts. the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( gaap ). we have an operating subsidiary in china that has variable interests in an affiliated entity in china in order to comply with chinese laws and regulations, which restrict foreign investment in internet content provision businesses. although we do not own the capital stock of this chinese affiliate, we consolidate its results as we are the primary beneficiary of the cash losses or profits of this variable interest affiliate and have the power to direct the activities of this affiliate. our variable interest entity is not material for all periods presented. accounting estimates we use estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with gaap. our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of our consolidated financial statements. these estimates and assumptions also affect the reported amount of net income or loss during any period. our actual financial results could differ significantly from these estimates. the significant estimates underlying our consolidated financial statements include: (i) recoverability of intangible assets, goodwill and other long-lived assets; (ii) accounting for income taxes; (iii) purchase accounting for business combinations; and (iv) stock-based compensation. reclassifications refer to our discussion in recently adopted accounting pronouncements below for required prior period reclassifications resulting from the early adoption of new accounting guidance. all other reclassifications, made to conform the prior period to the current presentation, were not material and had no net effect on our consolidated financial statements. revenue recognition we recognize revenue from our services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. deferred revenue, which primarily relates to our subscription-based and commission based arrangements, is recorded when payments are received in advance of our performance as required by the underlying agreements. click-based advertising . revenue is derived primarily from click-through fees charged to our travel partners for traveler leads sent to the travel partners' website. we record revenue from click-through fees after the traveler makes the click-through to the travel partners' websites. instant booking commission revenue is also included in click-based advertising revenue and is recorded at the time a traveler books a hotel transaction on our site where we do not assume cancellation risk, or the transaction model. in transactions in which we assume cancellation risk, we record revenue in the month in which the traveler's stay at a hotel occurs, or the consumption model. we have no post-booking service obligations for instant booking transactions. display-based advertising . we recognize display-based advertising revenue ratably over the advertising period or upon delivery of advertising impressions, depending on the terms of the advertising contract. subscription-based revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual period over which service is delivered. 65 attractions . we receive cash from the consumer at the time of booking of the destination activity and record these amounts, net of commissions, as deferred merchant pay ables on our consolidated balance sheet. commission r evenue is recorded as deferred revenue at the time of booking and later recognized when the consumer has completed the destination activity . we pay the destination activity operators after the travelers' use. restaurants. we recognize reservation revenues (or per seated diner fees) on a transaction-by-transaction basis as diners are seated by our restaurant customers. subscription-based revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual period over which the service is delivered. vacation rentals. we generate revenue from customers for online advertising services related to the listing of their properties for rent primarily on either a subscription basis over a fixed-term, or on a commission basis for transactions that are booked on our platform. payments for term-based subscriptions received in advance of services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized ratably to revenue on a straight-line basis over the listing period. our commission revenue is primarily generated on our free-to-list option, in lieu of a pre-paid subscription fee. when a commissionable transaction is booked on our platform, we receive cash from the traveler that includes both our commission, which is recorded as deferred revenue, and the amount due to the property owner, which is recorded to deferred merchant payables on our consolidated balance sheet. we pay the amount due to the property owner and recognize our commission revenue at the time of the traveler's stay. additional revenues are derived on a pay-per-lead basis, as we provide leads for rental properties to property managers. pay-per-lead revenue is billed and recognized in the period when the leads are delivered to the property managers. cost of revenue cost of revenue consists of expenses that are directly related or closely correlated to revenue generation, including direct costs, such as ad serving fees, flight search fees, transaction fees and data center costs. in addition, cost of revenue includes personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses for certain customer support personnel who are directly involved in revenue generation. selling and marketing sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of direct costs, including sem and other online traffic acquisition costs, syndication costs and affiliate program commissions, brand advertising, television and other offline advertising, and public relations. in addition, our indirect sales and marketing expense consists of personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses for sales, sales support, customer support and marketing employees. technology and content technology and content expenses consist of personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries and benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses for salaried employees and contractors engaged in the design, development, testing, content support, and maintenance of our websites and mobile apps. other costs include licensing, maintenance expense, computer supplies, and technology hardware. general and administrative general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel and related overhead costs, for personnel engaged in executive leadership, finance, legal, and human resources, including stock-based compensation. general and administrative costs also include professional service fees and other fees including audit, legal, tax and accounting, and other costs, including bad debt expense and charitable contributions. cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities our cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase. our marketable debt and equity securities have been classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. we determine the appropriate classification of our investments at the time of purchase and reevaluate the designations at each balance sheet date. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss and providing liquidity of investments sufficient to meet our operating and capital spending requirements and debt repayments. 66 we classify our marketable debt securities as either short-term or long-term based on each instrument's underlying contractual matu rity date and as to whether and when we intend to sell a particular security prior to its maturity date. marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 90 days at the date of purchase and 12 months or less remaining at the balance sheet date will be classified as short-term and marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date will generally be classified as long-term. we classify our marketable equity securities, limited to money market funds and mutual funds, as either short-term or long-term based on the nature of each security and its availability for use in current operations. our marketable debt and equity securities are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, repor ted in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a component of stockholders' equity. fair values are determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of each security's cost basis. we may sell certain of our marketable securities prior to their stated maturities for strategic reasons including, but not limited to, anticipation of credit deterioration and liquidity and duration management. the weighted average maturity of our total invested cash shall not exceed 18 months, and no security shall have a final maturity date greater than three years, according to our investment policy. we continually review our available for sale securities to determine whether a decline in fair value below the carrying value is other than temporary. when evaluating an investment for other-than-temporary impairment, we review factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below its cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and our intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell the investment before recovery of the investment's cost basis. once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. if we do not intend to sell the debt security, but it is probable that we will not collect all amounts due, then only the impairment due to the credit risk would be recognized in earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment would be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. cash consists of cash deposits held in global financial institutions. fair value measurements we apply fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. we measure assets and liabilities at fair value based on the expected exit price, which is the amount that would be received on the sale of an asset or amount paid to transfer a liability, as the case may be, in an orderly transaction between market participants in the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact. as such, fair value may be based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement date. the authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value on either a recurring or nonrecurring basis whereby inputs, used in valuation techniques, are assigned a hierarchical level. the following are the hierarchical levels of inputs to measure fair value: level 1 valuations are based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. level 2 valuations are based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. level 3 valuations are based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. these valuations require significant judgment. derivative financial instruments our goal in managing our foreign exchange risk is to reduce, to the extent practicable, our potential exposure to the changes that exchange rates might have on our earnings, cash flows and financial position. we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. we account for our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. in certain circumstances, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts ( forward contracts ) to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. our derivative instruments or forward contracts entered into which are not designated as hedges as of december 31, 2015 are disclosed below in note 5 financial instruments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting must be adjusted to fair value through current income. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of a given subsidiary are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. accordingly, fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, 67 except to th e extent of the spot-forward differences. these differences are not expected to be significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which to date, have generally had maturities at inception of 90 days or less. the net cash received or paid relat ed to our derivative instruments are classified as an operating activity in our consolidated statements of cash flow, which is based on the objective of the derivative instruments. these net cash flows have not been material in any reporting period to date . we have not entered into any cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges to date as of december 31, 2015. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts accounts receivable are generally due within 30 days and are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. we record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount. collateral is not required for accounts receivable. we consider accounts outstanding longer than the contractual payment terms as past due. we determine our allowance by considering a number of factors, including the length of time trade accounts receivable are past due, previous loss history, a specific customer's ability to pay its obligations to us, and the condition of the general economy and industry as a whole. the following table presents the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts for the periods presented: december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) allowance for doubtful accounts: balance, beginning of period $ 7 $ 3 $ 3 charges (recoveries) to earnings 3 3 1 write-offs, net of recoveries and other adjustments (4 ) 1 (1 ) balance, end of period $ 6 $ 7 $ 3 property and equipment, including website and software development costs we record property and equipment at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. we capitalize certain costs incurred during the application development stage related to the development of websites and internal use software when it is probable the project will be completed and the software will be used as intended. capitalized costs include internal and external costs, if direct and incremental, and deemed by management to be significant. we expense costs related to the planning and post-implementation phases of software and website development as these costs are incurred. maintenance and enhancement costs (including those costs in the post-implementation stages) are typically expensed as incurred, unless such costs relate to substantial upgrades and enhancements to the website or software resulting in added functionality, in which case the costs are capitalized. we compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which is three to five years for computer equipment, capitalized software and website development, office furniture and other equipment. we depreciate leasehold improvements using the straight-line method, over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the improvement or the remaining term of the lease. we depreciate our corporate headquarter building, which is considered an asset for accounting purposes as the building lease is considered a financing obligation under gaap, over its estimated useful life of 40 years. leases we lease office space in several countries around the world under non-cancelable lease agreements. we generally lease our office facilities under operating lease agreements. office facilities subject to an operating lease and the related lease payments are not recorded on our balance sheet. the terms of certain lease agreements provide for rental payments on a graduated basis, however, we recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease period in accordance with gaap. any lease incentives are recognized as reductions of rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. the lease term begins on the date we become legally obligated for the rent payments or when we take possession of the office space, whichever is earlier. we establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under lease arrangements where we are considered the owner for accounting purposes only, or build-to-suit leases, to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance under gaap. if we continue to be the deemed owner, for accounting purposes, the facilities are accounted for as financing obligations. 68 we establish assets and liabilities for the present value of es timated future costs to return certain of our leased facilities to their original condition for asset retirement obligations. such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated restoration costs and are included in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. business combination valuations and recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets goodwill we account for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. we assess goodwill, which is not amortized, for impairment annually on october 1, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment). each of our operating segments with goodwill represents a reporting unit for the purpose of assessing impairment. goodwill is allocated to our reporting units at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. once goodwill has been allocated to the reporting units, it no longer retains its identification with a particular acquisition and becomes identified with the reporting unit in its entirety. accordingly, the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is available to support the recoverability of its goodwill. in the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we generally first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50%) that the implied fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, we then perform a quantitative assessment and compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value. if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its implied fair value, the goodwill of that reporting unit is potentially impaired and we proceed to step two of the impairment analysis. in step two of the analysis, we will record an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill over its implied fair value should such a circumstance arise. in determining the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations and for determining implied fair values of reporting units in a quantitative goodwill impairment test, we use one, or a blend, of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (including discounted cash flows), the market approach or the cost approach. our significant estimates in those fair value measurements include identifying business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and/or operating income multiples. further, when measuring fair value based on discounted cash flows, we make assumptions about risk-adjusted discount rates, future price levels, rates of increase in revenue, cost of revenue, and operating expenses, weighted average cost of capital, rates of long-term growth, and income tax rates. valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. we believe that the fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations and impairment tests are based on reasonable assumptions that marketplace participants would use. however, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. as part of our qualitative assessment for our 2015 goodwill impairment analysis, the factors that we considered included, but were not limited to: (a) changes in macroeconomic conditions in the overall economy and the specific markets in which we operate, (b) our ability to access capital, (c) changes in the online travel industry, (d) changes in the level of competition, (e) comparison of our current financial performance to historical and budgeted results, and (f) changes in excess market capitalization over book value based on our common stock price and other market specific information. after considering these factors and the impact that changes in such factors would have on the inputs used in our previous quantitative assessment, we determined that it was more likely than not that goodwill was not impaired for any of our reporting units. 69 indefinite-lived intangible assets intangible assets that have indefinite lives are not amortized and are tested for impairment annually on october 1, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. similar to the qualitative assessment for goodwill, we may assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, we compare the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived asset with its carrying amount. if the carrying value of an individual indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its implied fair value, the individual asset is written down by an amount equal to such excess. the assessment of qualitative factors is optional and at our discretion. we may bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. as part of our qualitative assessment for our 2015 impairment analysis, the factors that we considered for our indefinite-lived intangible assets included, but were not limited to: (a) changes in macroeconomic conditions in the overall economy and the specific markets in which we operate, (b) our ability to access capital, (c) changes in the online travel industry, (d) changes in the level of competition, (e) comparison of our current financial performance to historical and budgeted results, (f) changes in excess market capitalization over book value based on our common stock price, and (g) the amount of excess of the fair value of our trade names and trademarks to the carrying value of those same assets, using the results of our most recent quantitative assessment. after considering these factors and the impact that changes in such factors would have on the inputs used in our previous quantitative assessment, we determined that it was more likely than not that these assets were not impaired. recoverability of intangible assets with definite lives and other long-lived assets intangible assets with definite lives and other long-lived assets are carried at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of one to twelve years. the straight-line method of amortization is currently used for our definite-lived intangible assets as it approximates, or is our best estimate, of the distribution of the economic use of our identifiable intangible assets. we review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups, including property and equipment, to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. if such facts indicate a potential impairment, we assess the recoverability of the asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset of the group. if the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. any impairment would be measured by the amount that the carrying value of such asset groups exceed their fair value and would be included in operating income on the consolidated statement of operations. we have not identified any circumstances that would warrant an impairment charge for any recorded definite lived or other long term assets on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2015. income taxes we record income taxes under the asset and liability method. deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. we determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. we consider all relevant factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as assessing available tax planning strategies. we may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. we record liabilities to address uncertain tax positions we have taken in previously filed tax returns or that we expect to take in a future tax return. the determination for required liabilities is based upon an analysis of each individual tax position, taking into consideration whether it is more likely than not that our tax position, based on technical merits, will be sustained upon examination. 70 foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses our consolidated financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars. certain of our subsidiaries outside of the united states use the related local currency as their functional currency and not the u.s. dollar. therefore assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate in effect at the applicable reporting date, and the consolidated statements of operations are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the applicable period. the resulting unrealized cumulative translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income(loss) in stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet. we also have subsidiaries that have transactions in foreign currencies other than their functional currency. transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise. subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transaction gains and losses which are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations as unrealized (based on the applicable period-end exchange rate) or realized upon settlement of the transactions, in interest income and other, net. accordingly, we have recorded foreign exchange losses of $4 million, $10 million and $0 million for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statement of operations. these amounts also include gains and losses, realized and unrealized, on foreign currency forward contracts. advertising expense we incur advertising expense, which includes traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, other online and offline (including television) advertising expense, promotions and public relations to promote our business. we expense the costs associated with communicating the advertisements in the period in which the advertisement takes place. we initially capitalize and then expense the production costs associated with television advertisements in the period in which the advertisement first takes place. for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our advertising expense was $507 million, $341 million, and $237 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, we had $2 million and $5 million of prepaid marketing expenses included in prepaid expenses and other current assets. we expect to fully expense our prepaid marketing asset of $2 million as of december 31, 2015 to the consolidated statement of operations during 2016. stock-based compensation stock options. the exercise price for all stock options granted by us to date has been equal to the market price of the underlying shares of common stock at the date of grant. in this regard, when making stock option awards, our practice is to determine the applicable grant date and to specify that the exercise price shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. the estimated grant-date fair value of stock options is calculated using a black-scholes merton option-pricing model ( black-scholes model ). the black-scholes model incorporates assumptions to value stock-based awards, which includes the risk-free rate of return, expected volatility, expected term and expected dividend yield. our risk-free interest rate is based on the rates currently available on zero-coupon u.s. treasury issues, in effect at the time of the grant, whose remaining maturity period most closely approximates the stock option's expected term assumption. our expected volatility is calculated by equally weighting the historical volatility and implied volatility on our own stock. historical volatility is determined using actual daily price observations of our stock price over a period equivalent to or approximate to the expected term of our stock option grants to date. implied volatility represents the volatility of our actively traded options on our stock, with remaining maturities in excess of twelve months and market prices approximate to the exercise prices of the stock option grant. we estimate our expected term using historical exercise behavior and expected post-vest termination data. our expected dividend yield is zero, as we have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date and do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. our stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and generally vest equitably over a four-year requisite service period. we amortize the grant-date fair value of our stock option grants, net of estimated forfeitures, as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. restricted stock units. rsus are stock awards that are granted to employees entitling the holder to shares of our common stock as the award vests. rsus are measured at fair value based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock at the date of grant. we amortize the fair value of rsus, net of estimated forfeitures, as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term of generally four years on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. 71 performance-based stock options and rsus vest upon achievement of certain company-based performance conditions and a requis ite service period. on the date of grant, the fair value of a performance-based award is calculated using the same method as our service based stock options and rsus described above. we then assess whether it is probable that the individual performance tar gets would be achieved. if assessed as probable, compensation expense will be recorded for these awards over the estimated performance period. at each reporting period, we will reassess the probability of achieving the performance targets and the performan ce period required to meet those targets. the estimation of whether the performance targets will be achieved and of the performance period required to achieve the targets requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, the cumulative effect on current and prior periods of those changes will be recorded in the period estimates are revised, or the change in estimate will be applied prospectively depending on whether the change affects the estimate of total compensation cost to be recognized or merely affects the period over which compensation cost is to be recognized. the ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation expense recognized will be based on a comparison of the final perform ance metrics to the specified targets. estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive these awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of our original estimates of fair value. we use historical data to estimate pre-vesting stock option and rsu forfeitures and record share-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. changes in estimated forfeitures are recognized through a cumulative catch-up adjustment in the period of change which also impacts the amount of stock compensation expense to be recognized in future periods. treasury stock shares of our common stock repurchased are recorded at cost as treasury stock and result in the reduction of stockholders' equity in our consolidated balance sheet. we may reissue these treasury shares. when treasury shares are reissued, we use the average cost method for determining the cost of reissued shares. if the issuance price is higher than the cost, the excess of the issuance price over the cost is credited to additional paid-in-capital. if the issuance price is lower than the cost, the difference is first charged against any credit balance in additional paid-in-capital from the previous issuances of treasury stock and the remaining balance is charged to retained earnings. deferred merchant payables we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking related to our vacation rental, attractions and transaction-based businesses and we record these amounts, net of commissions, on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant payables. we pay the hotel, attraction provider or vacation rental owner after the travelers' use and subsequent billing from the hotel, attraction provider or vacation rental owner. therefore, we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying the hotel, attraction provider or vacation rental owner, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source or use of cash to us. as long as these businesses grow, we expect that changes in working capital related to these transactions, depending on timing of payments and seasonality, will continue to impact operating cash flows. our deferred merchant payables balance was $105 million and $93 million for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. credit risk and concentrations financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk, consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, corporate debt securities, foreign exchange contracts, accounts receivable and customer concentrations. we maintain some cash and cash equivalents balances with financial institutions that are in excess of federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits. our cash and cash equivalents are primarily composed of prime institutional money market funds as well as bank account balances primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, euros, british pound sterling, chinese renminbi, australian dollars and singapore dollars. we invest in highly-rated corporate debt securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. our credit risk related to corporate debt securities is also mitigated by the relatively short maturity period required by our investment policy. foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various international financial institutions with high credit standing. our business is also subject to certain risks due to concentrations related to dependence on our relationships with our customers. for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 our two most significant advertising partners, expedia and priceline, each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and combined accounted for 46%, 46% and 47% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. this concentration of revenue is recorded in our hotel segment for these reporting periods. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, expedia accounted for 11% and 15%, respectively, of our total accounts receivable. our overall credit risk related to accounts receivable is also mitigated by the relatively short collection period. 72 contingent liabilities periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. we provide disclosure in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both these conditions if there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred that would be material to the financial statements. significant judgment may be required to determine the probability that a liability has been incurred and whether such liability is reasonably estimable. we base accruals made on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from the amounts included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. comprehensive income (loss) comprehensive income (loss) currently consists of net income, cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, and unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, net of tax. earnings per share ( eps ) basic earnings per share we compute basic earnings per share ( basic eps ) by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. we compute the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period using the total of common stock and class b common stock outstanding as of the last day of the previous year end reporting period plus the weighted average of any additional shares issued and outstanding less the weighted average of any treasury shares repurchased during the reporting period. diluted earnings per share we compute diluted earnings per share ( diluted eps ) by dividing net income by the sum of the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. we computed the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period using the sum of (i) the number of shares of common stock and class b common stock used in the basic earnings per share calculation as indicated above, and (ii) if dilutive, the incremental weighted average common stock that we would issue upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common equivalent shares related to stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units using the treasury stock method, and (iii) if dilutive, performance based awards based on the number of shares that would be issuable as of the end of the reporting period assuming the end of the reporting period was also the end of the contingency period. under the treasury stock method, the assumed proceeds calculation includes the actual proceeds to be received from the employee upon exercise, the average unrecognized compensation cost during the period and any tax benefits credited upon exercise to additional paid-in-capital. the treasury stock method assumes that a company uses the proceeds from the exercise of an award to repurchase common stock at the average market price for the period. windfall tax benefits created upon the exercise of an award would be added to assumed proceeds, while shortfalls charged to additional paid-in-capital would be deducted from assumed proceeds. any shortfalls not covered by the windfall tax pool would be charged to the income statement and would be excluded from the calculation of assumed proceeds, if any. 73 below is a reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding in calculating diluted eps (shares in thousands and dollars in millions, except per share amounts) for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 numerator: net income $ 198 $ 226 $ 205 denominator: weighted average shares used to compute basic eps 143,836 142,721 142,854 weighted average effect of dilutive securities: stock options 1,839 2,734 2,131 rsus 292 345 278 weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps 145,967 145,800 145,263 basic eps $ 1.38 $ 1.58 $ 1.44 diluted eps $ 1.36 $ 1.55 $ 1.41 the following potential common shares related to stock options and rsus were excluded from the calculation of diluted eps because their effect would have been anti-dilutive for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2015(1) 2014(2) 2013(3) stock options 2,142 1,450 2,244 rsus 562 191 27 total 2,704 1,641 2,271 (1) these totals do not include 66,666 performance based options and 12,799 performance based rsus representing the right to acquire 79,465 shares of common stock for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved; therefore, such awards were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. (2) these totals do not include 66,666 performance based options and 44,000 performance based rsus representing the right to acquire 110,666 shares of common stock for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved; therefore, such awards were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. (3) these totals do not include 155,000 performance based options and 44,000 performance based rsus representing the right to acquire 199,000 shares of common stock, respectively, for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved; therefore, such awards were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. the earnings per share amounts are the same for common stock and class b common stock because the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share distributions whether through dividends or in liquidation. new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted in september 2015, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued new accounting guidance which eliminates the requirement for an acquirer in a business combination to account for measurement-period adjustments retrospectively. instead, acquirers must recognize measurement-period adjustments during the period in which they determine the amounts, including the effect on earnings of any amounts that would have been recorded in previous periods if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. this update is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after december 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted. the planned adoption of this guidance in 2016 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in may 2014, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on revenue from contracts with customers. the new guidance requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. the updated guidance will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in gaap when it becomes effective and permits the use of either a full retrospective approach or a modified retrospective approach, which requires the initial cumulative effect to be recognized at the date of initial application. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2016. we 74 have not yet selected a transition method and we are currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements or related disclosures. recently adopted accounting pronouncements in november 2015, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which requires an entity to present deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as noncurrent on the consolidated balance sheet. this guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. the company has early adopted this guidance and has applied the requirements retrospectively to all periods presented. the adoption of this guidance resulted in the reclassification of $10 million from current deferred income tax assets to noncurrent deferred income tax liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2014. in april 2015, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which requires debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability instead of being presented as an asset. debt disclosures will include the face amount of the debt liability and the effective interest rate. in august 2015, additional accounting guidance was issued on this topic that clarifies the april 2015 guidance for debt issuance costs associated with line-of-credit arrangements, which states the fasb would not object to the continued deferral and presentation of debt issuance costs as an asset, which would be subsequently amortized over the term of the arrangement. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and the interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2015, with early application permitted. the company has early adopted this guidance. the retrospective application of this guidance decreased other long-term assets and long-term debt by $1 million on the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2014. refer to note 8 debt below for the current year presentation. note 3: acquisitions and dispositions we acquired a number of businesses during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. these business combinations were accounted for as purchases of businesses under the acquisition method. the fair value of purchase consideration has been allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date, with the remaining amount recorded to goodwill. acquired goodwill represents the premium we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. we paid a premium in each of these transactions for a number of reasons, including expected operational synergies, the assembled workforces, and the future development initiatives of the assembled workforces. the results of each of these acquired businesses have been included in the consolidated financial statements beginning on the respective acquisition dates. for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were $1 million, $4 million and $2 million, respectively, and are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. 2015 acquisition of businesses during the year ended december 31, 2015, we completed three acquisitions for a total purchase price consideration of $28 million and paid in cash. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our international subsidiaries. we acquired 100% of the outstanding capital stock of the following companies: zetrip, a personal journal app that helps users log activities, including places they have visited and photos they have taken, purchased in january 2015; besttables, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in portugal and brazil, purchased in march 2015; and dimmi, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in australia, purchased in may 2015. the purchase price allocation of our 2015 acquisitions is preliminary and subject to revision as more information becomes available, but in any case will not be revised beyond twelve months after the acquisition date and any change to the fair value of assets acquired or liabilities assumed will lead to a corresponding change to the purchase price allocable to goodwill on a retroactive basis. the primary area of the purchase price allocation which is not yet finalized is related to income tax net operating losses for all 2015 acquisitions. acquired goodwill related to our 2015 acquisitions was primarily allocated to our other segment and is not deductible for tax purposes. pro-forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented as the financial impact to our consolidated financial statements, both individually and in aggregate, would not be materially different from historical results. the following table presents the purchase price allocations recorded on our consolidated balance sheet for all 2015 acquisitions (in millions): 75 total goodwill $ 17 intangible assets (1) 12 net tangible assets 1 deferred tax liabilities, net (2 ) total purchase price consideration (2) $ 28 (1) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2015 were comprised of trade names of $2 million with a weighted average life of approximately 10 years, customer lists and supplier relationships of $7 million with a weighted average life of approximately 6 years and technology and other of $3 million with a weighted average life of approximately 2 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of these businesses during 2015 was 6 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (2) subject to adjustment based on indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of the acquired company stockholders. 2015 sale of business in august 2015, we sold 100% interest in one of our chinese subsidiaries to an unrelated third party for $28 million in cash consideration. accordingly, we deconsolidated $11 million of assets (which included $3 million of cash sold) and $4 million of liabilities from our consolidated balance sheet and recognized a $20 million gain on sale of subsidiary in our consolidated statements of operations in interest income and other, net during the year ended december 31, 2015. 2014 acquisition of businesses in august 2014, we completed our acquisition of viator, inc. viator, which is headquartered in san francisco and has offices in las vegas, london, and sydney, is a leading resource for researching and booking destination activities around the world. our total purchase price was $192 million, for all the outstanding shares of capital stock of viator, consisting of approximately $187 million in cash consideration (or $132 million, net of cash acquired from viator of $55 million) and the value of certain viator stock options that were assumed. we issued 100,595 tripadvisor stock options related to the assumed viator stock options. the fair value of the earned portion of assumed stock options was $5 million and is included in the purchase price, with the remaining fair value of $3 million resulting in post-acquisition compensation expense that will generally be recognized ratably over three years from the date of acquisition. the total cash consideration was paid from one of our u.s. based subsidiaries. during the year ended december 31, 2014, we completed six other acquisitions for a total purchase price consideration of $208 million, for which the company paid total cash consideration of $199 million, which is net of cash acquired of $7 million and approximately $2 million in holdbacks for general representations and warranties of the respective sellers, of which $1 million was paid in 2015. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our international subsidiaries. we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of capital stock for the following companies; vacation home rentals, a u.s.-based vacation rental website featuring properties around the world purchased in may 2014; london-based tripbod, a travel community that helps connect travelers to local experts purchased in may 2014; lafourchette, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in europe purchased in may 2014; mytable and restopolis, both providers of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in italy purchased in october 2014; and iens, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in the netherlands purchased in december 2014. during 2014, all 2014 acquisitions accounted for approximately 3% of consolidated revenue for the year. pro-forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented as the financial impact to our consolidated financial statements, both individually and in aggregate, would not have been materially different from historical results. the following table presents the purchase price allocations recorded on our consolidated balance sheet for all 2014 acquisitions (in millions): total goodwill (1) $ 253 intangible assets (2) 194 net tangible assets (liabilities) (3) (7 ) deferred tax liabilities, net (40 ) total purchase price consideration (4) $ 400 76 (1) goodwill in the amount of $5 million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2014 were comprised of trade names of $44 million with a weighted average life of 10 years, customer lists and supplier relationships of $82 million with an approximate weighted average life of 7 years, subscriber relationships of $25 million with a weighted average life of 6 years and developed technology and other of $43 million with an approximate weighted average life of 5 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of the companies during 2014 was approximately 7 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) includes assets acquired, including cash of $62 million and accounts receivable of $25 million and liabilities assumed, including deferred merchant payables of $76 million, accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $15 million and deferred revenue of $5 million which reflect their respective fair values at acquisition date. (4) subject to adjustment based on indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of the acquired company stockholders. 2013 acquisition of businesses during the year ended december 31, 2013, we completed six acquisitions for a total purchase price consideration of $40 million, for which the company paid total cash consideration of $35 million, net of cash acquired of $3 million and approximately $2 million in holdbacks for general representations and warranties of the respective sellers, which have subsequently been paid. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our international subsidiaries. we acquired tinypost, the developer of a product that enables users to write over photos and turn them into stories, jetsetter, a members-only private sale site for hotel bookings; cruisewise, a cruise research and planning site; niumba, a spain-based vacation rental site; gateguru, a mobile app with flight and airport information around the world; oyster, a hotel review website featuring expert reviews and photos around the world, all of which complemented our existing brands in those areas of the travel ecosystem. the purchase price of our 2013 acquisitions is considered final. note 4: stock based awards and other equity instruments stock-based compensation expense the following table presents the amount of stock-based compensation related to stock-based awards, primarily stock options and rsus, on our consolidated statements of operations during the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) selling and marketing $ 16 $ 13 $ 11 technology and content 28 27 21 general and administrative 28 23 17 total stock-based compensation expense 72 63 49 income tax benefit from stock-based compensation expense (26 ) (24 ) (18 ) total stock-based compensation expense, net of tax effect $ 46 $ 39 $ 31 during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we capitalized $8 million, $8 million and $5 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense as website development costs. stock and incentive plans on december 20, 2011, our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan became effective and we filed post-effective amendment no. 1 on form s-8 to registration statement on form s-4 (file no. 333-178637) (the prior registration statement ) with the securities and exchange commission (the commission ), registering a total of 17,500,000 shares of our common stock, of which 17,400,000 shares were issuable in connection with grants of equity-based awards under our 2011 incentive plan (7,400,000 of which shares were originally registered on the form s-4 and 10,000,000 of which shares were first registered on the prior registration statement) and 100,000 shares were issuable under our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (refer to note 13 employee benefit plans below for information on our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors). at our annual meeting of stockholders held on june 28, 2013 (the annual meeting ), our stockholders approved an amendment to our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan to, among other things, increase the aggregate number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance thereunder by 15,000,000 shares. we refer to our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan, as amended by the amendment as the 2011 incentive plan. 77 on september 12, 2014, we filed a registration statement on form s-8 with respect to up to 100,595 shares of our common stock for issuance under the viator, inc. 2010 stock incentive plan, as amended (the viator plan ). pursuant to the amended and res tated agreement and plan of merger among tripadvisor llc; vineyard acquisition corporation and viator, inc., dated as of july 24, 2014 (the merger agreement ), vineyard acquisition corporation merged with and into viator, inc. with viator, inc. surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company. in accordance with the merger agreement, we assumed certain outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock of viator granted under the viator plan (the assumed options ). as a result of this assumption, the assumed options were converted into options to purchase shares of our common stock. we do not intend to grant new equity or equity-based awards under the viator plan. pursuant to the 2011 incentive plan, we may, among other things, grant rsus, restricted stock, stock options and other stock-based awards to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. the summary of the material terms of the 2011 incentive plan is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the 2011 incentive plan previously filed. as of december 31, 2015, the total number of shares available for issuance under the 2011 incentive plan is 17,200,758 shares. all shares of common stock issued in respect of the exercise of options or other equity awards since spin-off have been issued from authorized, but unissued common stock. stock based award activity and valuation 2015 stock option activity during the year ended december 31, 2015, we have issued 586,851 of service based non-qualified stock options from the 2011 incentive plan. these stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and generally vest equitably over a four-year requisite service period. a summary of our stock option activity is presented below: weighted weighted average average exercise remaining aggregate options price per contractual intrinsic outstanding share life value (in thousands) (in years) (in millions) options outstanding at december 31, 2014 8,651 $ 44.47 granted 587 83.78 exercised (1) (3,187 ) 33.78 cancelled or expired (331 ) 57.44 options outstanding at december 31, 2015 5,720 $ 53.71 5.6 $ 187 exercisable as of december 31, 2015 2,480 $ 36.69 4.3 $ 122 vested and expected to vest after december 31, 2015 5,610 $ 53.30 5.6 $ 186 (1) inclusive of 1,978,692 options, which were not converted into shares due to net share settlement in order to cover the aggregate exercise price and the minimum amount of required employee withholding taxes. potential shares which had been convertible under stock options that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2011 incentive plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the closing stock price of our common stock and the exercise price of outstanding, in-the-money options. our closing stock price as reported on nasdaq as of december 31, 2015 was $85.25. the total intrinsic value of stock options exercised for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 were $149 million, $75 million, and $58 million, respectively. 78 the fair value of stock option grants has been estimated at the date of grant using the black scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for the periods presented: december 31, 2015 2014 2013 risk free interest rate 1.58 % 1.79 % 1.41 % expected term (in years) 5.42 5.80 6.06 expected volatility 41.79 % 44.04 % 50.78 % expected dividend yield % % % the weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted, excluding assumed acquisition-related options, was $33.02, $46.65, and $28.30 for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. the weighted-average grant date fair value of assumed acquisition-related options was $80.31 for the year ended december 31, 2014. refer to note 3 acquisitions and dispositions in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our acquisitions. the total fair value of stock options vested for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 were $36 million, $34 million, and $27 million, respectively. 2015 rsu activity during the year ended december 31, 2015, we issued 1,016,626 rsus under the 2011 incentive plan for which the fair value was measured based on the quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant. these rsus generally vest over a four-year requisite service period. the following table presents a summary of our rsu activity: weighted average grant- aggregate rsus date fair intrinsic outstanding value per share value (in thousands) (in millions) unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2014 1,448 $ 71.33 granted 1,017 82.95 vested and released (1) (440 ) 66.58 cancelled (275 ) 72.76 unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2015 1,750 $ 79.02 $ 149 expected to vest after december 31, 2015 1,556 $ 78.77 $ 133 (1) inclusive of 128,341 rsus withheld to satisfy employee minimum tax withholding requirements due to net share settlement. potential shares which had been convertible under rsus that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2011 incentive plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. unrecognized stock-based compensation a summary of our remaining unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, and the weighted average remaining amortization period at december 31, 2015 related to our non-vested stock options and rsu awards is presented below (in millions, except per year information): stock options rsus unrecognized compensation expense (net of forfeitures) $ 56 $ 94 weighted average period remaining (in years) 2.5 2.7 79 note 5: financial instruments cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities the following tables show our cash and available-for-sale securities' amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value by significant investment category recorded as cash and cash equivalents or short and long-term marketable securities as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 (in millions): december 31, 2015 cash and short-term long-term amortized unrealized unrealized fair cash marketable marketable cost gains losses value equivalents securities securities cash $ 598 $ $ $ 598 $ 598 $ $ level 1: money market funds 11 11 11 level 2: u.s. agency securities 13 13 9 4 u.s. treasury securities 16 16 4 12 certificates of deposit 5 5 4 1 commercial paper 1 1 1 corporate debt securities 54 54 1 21 32 subtotal 89 89 5 47 37 total $ 698 $ $ $ 698 $ 614 $ 47 $ 37 december 31, 2014 cash and short-term long-term amortized unrealized unrealized fair cash marketable marketable cost gains losses value equivalents securities securities cash $ 447 $ $ $ 447 $ 447 $ $ level 1: money market funds 8 8 8 level 2: u.s. agency securities 38 38 35 3 certificates of deposit 8 8 8 commercial paper 1 1 1 corporate debt securities 92 92 64 28 subtotal 139 139 108 31 total $ 594 $ $ $ 594 $ 455 $ 108 $ 31 our cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand in global financial institutions, money market funds and marketable securities, with maturities of 90 days or less at the date purchased. the remaining maturities of our long-term marketable securities range from one to three years and our short-term marketable securities include maturities that were greater than 90 days at the date purchased and have 12 months or less remaining at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. we classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities within level 1 and level 2 as we value our cash equivalents and marketable securities using quoted market prices (level 1) or alternative pricing sources (level 2). the valuation technique we used to measure the fair value of money market funds were derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. fair values for level 2 investments are considered level 2 valuations because they are obtained from independent pricing sources for identical or comparable instruments, rather than direct observations of quoted prices in active markets. our procedures include controls to ensure that appropriate fair values are recorded, including comparing the fair values obtained from our independent pricing services against fair values obtained from another independent source. there were no material realized gains or losses related to sales of our marketable securities for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013. we consider any individual investments in an unrealized loss position to be temporary in nature and do not consider any of our investments other-than-temporarily impaired as of december 31, 2015. 80 derivative financial instruments our current forward contracts are not designated as hedges and have current maturities of less than 90 days. consequently, any gain or loss resulting from the change in fair value was recognized in our consolidated statement of operations. we recorded a net gain of $2 million and $1 million for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, related to our settled and outstanding forward contracts in our consolidated statements of operations in interest income and other, net. all gains and losses for the year ended december 31, 2013 were not material. the following table shows the notional principal amounts of our outstanding derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments for the periods presented: december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 (in millions) foreign exchange-forward contracts (1)(2) $ 25 $ 20 (1) derivative contracts address foreign exchange fluctuations for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. (2) the fair value of our derivatives are not material for all periods presented and are reported as assets in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheets. we measure the fair value of our outstanding or unsettled derivatives using level 2 fair value inputs, as we use a pricing model that takes into account the contract terms as well as current foreign currency exchange rates in active markets. concentration of credit risk counterparties to currency exchange derivatives consist of major international financial institutions. we monitor our positions and the credit ratings of the counterparties involved and, by policy limits, the amount of credit exposure to any one party. while we may be exposed to potential losses due to the credit risk of non-performance by these counterparties, losses are not anticipated and any credit risk amounts associated with our outstanding or unsettled derivative instruments are deemed to be not material for any period presented. other financial instruments other financial instruments not measured at fair value on a recurring basis include trade receivables, trade payables, deferred merchant payables, short-term debt, accrued and other current liabilities and long-term debt. with the exception of long-term debt, the carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments as reported on our consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014, respectively. the carrying value of the long-term debt from our 2015 credit facility bears interest at a variable rate and therefore is also considered to approximate fair value. we did not have any level 3 assets or liabilities at december 31, 2015 or 2014. note 6: property and equipment, net property and equipment consists of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 (in millions) capitalized software and website development $ 127 $ 104 building (1) 123 - leasehold improvements 32 40 computer equipment 36 31 furniture, office equipment and other 17 11 335 186 less: accumulated depreciation (88 ) (77 ) construction in progress (1) - 86 total $ 247 $ 195 (1) these amounts represent construction costs incurred by the landlord and the company, related to our corporate headquarters in needham, ma. during the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, we capitalized $6 million and $52 million, respectively, in non-cash construction costs which were incurred by the landlord, with a corresponding liability recorded in other long-term 81 liabilities. upon completion of construction at the end of the second quarter of 2015, th is asset was reclassified to a building asset and we began depreciating it over an estimated useful life of 40 years on a straight-line basis. refer to note 12 commitments and contingencies , for additional information on our corporate headquarters lea se. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, our recorded capitalized software and website development costs, net of accumulated amortization, were $71 million and $61 million, respectively. for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, we capitalized $52 million and $47 million, respectively, related to software and website development costs. for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recorded amortization of capitalized software and website development costs of $37 million, $30 million and $20 million, respectively, which is included in depreciation expense on our consolidated statements of operations for those years. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we retired and disposed of property and equipment, primarily capitalized software and website development and leasehold improvements, which were no longer in use and fully depreciated with a total cost of $39 million. note 7: goodwill and intangible assets, net the following table summarizes our goodwill activity by segment for the periods presented: tripadvisor hotel other consolidated (in millions) balance as of december 31, 2013 $ 502 $ - $ - $ 502 acquisitions (1) 253 - - 253 other adjustments (2) (21 ) - - (21 ) allocation to new segments (3) (734 ) 442 292 - balance as of december 31, 2014 $ - $ 442 $ 292 $ 734 acquisitions (1) - 1 16 17 disposition - (1 ) - (1 ) other adjustments (2) - - (18 ) (18 ) ending balance as of december 31, 2015 $ - $ 442 $ 290 $ 732 (1) the additions to goodwill relate to our business acquisitions. see note 3 acquisitions and dispositions , for further information. (2) primarily related to impact of changes in foreign exchange rates to goodwill. (3) reflects initial allocation of goodwill related to our reporting segment changes in the fourth quarter of 2014. see note 16 segment and geographic information for information on our segments. intangible assets, which were acquired in business combinations and recorded at fair value on the date of purchase, consist of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2015 2014 (in millions) intangible assets with definite lives $ 198 $ 202 less: accumulated amortization (52 ) (18 ) intangible assets with definite lives, net 146 184 intangible assets with indefinite lives 30 30 total $ 176 $ 214 amortization expense was $36 million, $18 million, and $6 million, respectively, for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. our indefinite-lived assets relate to trade names and trademarks. there were no impairment charges recognized to our consolidated statement of operations during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 related to our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. 82 the following table presents the components of our intangibl e assets with definite lives for the periods presented: december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 weighted average gross net gross net remaining life carrying accumulated carrying carrying accumulated carrying (in years) amount amortization amount amount amortization amount (in millions) (in millions) trade names and trademarks 8.5 $ 53 $ (9 ) $ 44 $ 52 $ (5 ) $ 47 customer lists and supplier relationships 5.4 82 (20 ) 62 77 (5 ) 72 subscriber relationships 4.8 29 (9 ) 20 31 (4 ) 27 technology and other 3.3 34 (14 ) 20 42 (4 ) 38 total 6.0 $ 198 $ (52 ) $ 146 $ 202 $ (18 ) $ 184 refer to note 3 acquisitions and dispositions above for a discussion of definite lived intangible assets acquired in business combinations during the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014. intangible assets with definite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis. the estimated amortization expense for intangible assets with definite lives for each of the next five years, and the expense thereafter, assuming no subsequent impairment of the underlying assets, is expected to be as follows (in millions): 2016 $ 29 2017 28 2018 25 2019 22 2020 17 2021 and thereafter 25 total $ 146 note 8: debt the company's outstanding debt consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, december 31, 2015 2014 (in millions) short-term debt: chinese credit facilities $ 1 $ 38 term loan - 40 total short-term debt $ 1 $ 78 long-term debt: 2015 credit facility $ 200 $ - term loan - 260 less: unamortized discount and debt issuance costs - (1 ) total long-term debt $ 200 $ 259 2011 credit facility on december 20, 2011, we entered into a credit agreement (the 2011 credit facility ), which provided $600 million of borrowing including: a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $400 million with a term of five years due december 2016 ( term loan ); and a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $200 million available in u.s. dollars, euros and british pound sterling with a term of five years expiring december 2016. 83 on june 26, 2015, the entire outstanding principal on our term loan in the amount of $290 million was repaid with borrowings from our 2015 credit facility (described below) and the 2011 credit facility was subsequently terminated. the company was able to repay the term loan debt and terminate the 2011 credit facility without premium or penalty. there was no resul ting loss on early extinguishment of this debt. during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recorded total interest and commitment fees on our 2011 credit facility of $3 million, $6 million and $8 million, respectively, to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. all unpaid interest and commitment fee amounts as of december 31, 2014 were not material. 2015 credit facility on june 26, 2015, we entered into a five year credit agreement with jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., as administrative agent; j.p. morgan europe limited, as london agent; morgan stanley bank, n.a.; bank of america, n.a.; bnp paribas; suntrust bank; wells fargo bank, national association; royal bank of canada; barclays bank plc; u.s. bank national association; citibank, n.a.; the bank of tokyo-mitsubishi ufj, ltd.; goldman sachs bank usa; and deutsche bank ag new york branch (the 2015 credit facility ). the 2015 credit facility, among other things, provides for (i) a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, (ii) an interest rate on borrowings and commitment fees based on the company's and its subsidiaries' consolidated leverage ratio and (iii) uncommitted incremental revolving loan and term loan facilities, subject to compliance with a leverage covenant and other conditions. any overdue amounts under or in respect of the revolving credit facility not paid when due shall bear interest at (i) in the case of principal, the applicable interest rate plus 2.00% per annum, (ii) in the case of interest denominated in sterling or euro, the applicable rate plus 2.00% per annum and (iii) in the case of interest denominated in us dollars, 2.00% per annum plus the alternate base rate plus the interest rate spread applicable to abr loans. the company may borrow from the revolving credit facility in u.s dollars, euros and british pound sterling with a term of five years expiring june 26, 2020. we immediately borrowed $290 million from this revolving credit facility, which was used to repay all outstanding borrowings pursuant to the 2011 credit facility and is recorded in long term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2015. there is no specific repayment date prior to the five-year maturity date for borrowings under this revolving credit facility. during the year ended december 31, 2015, the company has repaid $90 million of our outstanding borrowings on the 2015 credit facility. based on the company's current leverage ratio, our borrowings bear interest at libor plus 125 basis points, or the eurocurrency spread. the company is currently borrowing under a one-month interest period of 1.7% per annum, using a one-month interest period eurocurrency spread, which will reset periodically. interest will be payable on a monthly basis while the company is borrowing under the one-month interest rate period. we are also required to pay a quarterly commitment fee, on the daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility for each fiscal quarter and fees in connection with the issuance of letters of credit. unused revolver capacity is currently subject to a commitment fee of 20.0 basis points, given the company's current leverage ratio. the 2015 credit facility includes $15 million of borrowing capacity available for letters of credit and $40 million for borrowings on same-day notice. as of december 31, 2015, we had issued $2 million of outstanding letters of credit under the 2015 credit facility. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we recorded total interest and commitment fees on our 2015 credit facility of $2 million, respectively, to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. all unpaid interest and commitment fee amounts as of december 31, 2015 were not material. in connection with the 2015 credit facility, we incurred lender fees and debt financing costs totaling $3 million, which were capitalized as deferred financing costs and recorded to other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet. during the year ended december 31, 2015, amortization expense recorded to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations was not material. these costs will continue to be amortized over the term of the 2015 credit facility using the effective interest rate method. we may voluntarily repay any outstanding borrowing under the 2015 credit facility at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs with respect to eurocurrency loans. certain wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of the company have agreed to guarantee the company's obligations under the 2015 credit facility. the 2015 credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur additional indebtedness, create liens, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, engage in mergers or consolidations, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends and distributions, make investments, loans or advances, prepay certain subordinated indebtedness, make certain acquisitions, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, amend material agreements governing certain subordinated indebtedness, and change our 84 fiscal year. the 2015 credit facility also requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio an d contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default, including a change of control. if an event of default occurs, the lenders under the 2015 credit facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of all a mounts due under 2015 credit facility. as of december 31, 2015, we are in compliance with all of our debt covenants. the full text of the credit agreement entered into in connection with the 2015 credit facility is incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k as exhibit 10.27 of the company's current report on form 8-k filed june 30, 2015. chinese credit facilities in addition to our borrowings under the 2015 credit facility, we maintain our chinese credit facilities. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, we had short-term borrowings outstanding of $1 million and $38 million, respectively. our chinese subsidiary is entered into a $30 million, one-year revolving credit facility with bank of america (the chinese credit facility boa ) that is currently subject to review on a periodic basis with no specific expiration period. our chinese credit facility boa currently bears interest at a 100% of the people's bank of china's base rate which was 4.35% as of december 31, 2015. during the year ended december 31, 2015, the company made a $22 million repayment of our outstanding borrowings on our chinese credit facilities- boa. as of december 31, 2015, we had $1 million of outstanding borrowings from the chinese credit facility boa. in addition, our chinese subsidiary is entered into a rmb 125,000,000 (approximately $20 million) one-year revolving credit facility with j.p. morgan chase bank ( chinese credit facility-jpm ). our chinese credit facility jpm currently also bears interest at a rate based on 100% of the people's bank of china's base rate, which was 4.35% as of december 31, 2015. during the year ended december 31, 2015, the company made a $19 million repayment of our outstanding borrowings on our chinese credit facilities- jpm. as of december 31, 2015, there are no outstanding borrowings under our chinese credit facility jpm. note 9: income taxes the following table presents a summary of our domestic and foreign income before income taxes: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) domestic $ 67 $ 146 $ 129 foreign 172 176 155 total $ 239 $ 322 $ 284 the following table presents a summary of the components of our provision for income taxes: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) current income tax expense: federal $ 48 $ 93 $ 48 state 8 14 9 foreign 22 6 17 current income tax expense 78 113 74 deferred income tax (benefit) expense: federal (29 ) (12 ) 6 state (2 ) (1 ) 1 foreign (6 ) (4 ) (2 ) deferred income tax (benefit) expense: (37 ) (17 ) 5 provision for income taxes $ 41 $ 96 $ 79 85 the significant components of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 are as follows: december 31, 2015 2014 (in millions) deferred tax assets: stock-based compensation $ 40 $ 43 net operating loss carryforwards 31 34 provision for accrued expenses 12 13 deferred rent 5 5 lease financing obligation 33 26 foreign advertising spend 8 9 deferred expense related to cost-sharing arrangement 20 - charitable contribution carryforward 24 - other 4 5 total deferred tax assets $ 177 $ 135 less: valuation allowance (17 ) (19 ) net deferred tax assets $ 160 $ 116 deferred tax liabilities: intangible assets $ (81 ) $ (88 ) property and equipment (27 ) (25 ) prepaid expenses (4 ) (4 ) building (31 ) (26 ) deferred income related to cost-sharing arrangement (7 ) - other - (1 ) total deferred tax liabilities $ (150 ) $ (144 ) net deferred tax asset (liability) (1) $ 10 $ (28 ) (1) includes non-current deferred tax assets of $25 million and $1 million as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, reported in "other long-term assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. at december 31, 2015, we had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards ( nols ) of approximately $16 million, $13 million and $85 million. if not utilized, the federal and state nols will expire at various times between 2020 and 2035 and the foreign nols will expire at various times between 2016 and 2033. at december 31, 2015, we had a valuation allowance of $17 million primarily related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards for which it is more likely than not that the tax benefit will not be realized. this amount represented an overall decrease of $2 million over the amount recorded as of december 31, 2014. the decrease is primarily related to the sale of one of our chinese subsidiaries that previously had a full valuation allowance. except for certain deferred tax assets, we expect to realize all of our deferred tax assets based on a strong history of earnings in the us and other jurisdictions, as well as future reversals of taxable temporary differences. we have not provided for deferred u.s. income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries that we have or intend to reinvest permanently outside the united states; the total amount of such earnings as of december 31, 2015 was $759 million. should we distribute or be treated under certain u.s. tax rules as having distributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to u.s. income taxes. due to complexities in tax laws and various assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable at this time to estimate the amount of unrecognized deferred u.s. taxes on these earnings. 86 a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amounts computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income before income taxes is as follows: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) income tax expense at the federal statutory rate of 35% $ 84 $ 113 $ 100 foreign rate differential (53 ) (49 ) (41 ) state income taxes, net of effect of federal tax benefit 4 13 8 unrecognized tax benefits and related interest 12 14 9 change in cost-sharing treatment of stock-based compensation (13 ) - - non-deductible transaction costs 1 1 - change in valuation allowance 5 5 2 other, net 1 (1 ) 1 provision for income taxes $ 41 $ 96 $ 79 during 2011, the singapore economic development board accepted our application to receive a tax incentive under the international headquarters award. this incentive provides for a reduced tax rate on qualifying income of 5% as compared to singapore's statutory tax rate of 17% and is conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. this agreement has been extended until june 30, 2021 as we have met certain employment and investment thresholds. this benefit resulted in a decrease to the 2015 tax provision of $4 million or added an incremental $0.03 to our diluted eps for 2015. by virtue of previously filed consolidated income tax returns filed with expedia, we are currently under an irs audit for the 2009 and 2010 tax years, and have various ongoing state income tax audits. we are separately under examination by the irs for the 2012 and 2013 tax years and have commenced an employment tax audit with the irs for the 2013 and 2014 tax years. these audits include questioning of the timing and the amount of income and deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. these examinations may lead to proposed or ordinary course adjustments to our taxes. we are no longer subject to tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2007. as of december 31, 2015, no material assessments have resulted. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we received notification of a draft proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2009 and 2010 tax years and we anticipate receiving additional notices of proposed adjustments for the same years. these proposed adjustments are related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries, and would result in an increase to u.s. taxable income and federal tax expense for 2009 and 2010, subject to interest. our policy is to review and update tax reserves as facts and circumstances change. based on our interpretation of the regulations and available case law, we believe the position we have taken with regard to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries is sustainable. we intend to defend our position through irs administrative and, if necessary, by judicial remedies. as of december 31, 2015, no additional adjustments have been proposed. in july 2015, the united states tax court (the court ) issued an opinion favorable to altera corporation ( altera ) with respect to altera's litigation with the internal revenue service ( irs ). this opinion was submitted as a final decision under tax court ( t.c. ) rule 155 during december 2015. the litigation relates to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an inter-company cost-sharing arrangement with altera's foreign subsidiary. in its opinion, the court accepted altera's position of excluding stock based compensation from its inter-company cost-sharing arrangement. the irs has the right to appeal the court decision. at this time, the u.s. department of the treasury has not withdrawn the requirement from its regulations to include stock-based compensation in intercompany cost-sharing arrangements. the company has evaluated the impact of the court case and recorded a tax benefit of $13 million in its consolidated statement of operations for the year ended december 31, 2015. the company will continue to monitor this matter and related potential impacts to its consolidated financial statements. 87 a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits (excluding interest and penalties) is as follows: december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) balance, beginning of year $ 67 $ 36 $ 24 increases to tax positions related to the current year 15 13 12 increases to tax positions related to the prior year 7 18 4 reductions due to lapsed statute of limitations - - - decreases to tax positions related to the prior year - - (4 ) settlements during current year - - - balance, end of year $ 89 $ 67 $ 36 as of december 31, 2015, we had $89 million of unrecognized tax benefits, net of interest, which is classified as long-term and included in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce income tax expense by $53 million, due to correlative adjustments in other tax jurisdictions. we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense on our consolidated statement of operations. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, total gross interest accrued was $6 million and $4 million, respectively. we do not anticipate any material changes in the next year. note 10: accrued expenses and other current liabilities accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 (in millions) accrued salary, bonus, and related benefits $ 47 $ 41 accrued marketing costs 43 24 accrued charitable foundation payments (1) - 8 other 33 41 total $ 123 $ 114 (1) see note 12 commitments and contingencies for information regarding costs associated with the foundation. note 11: other long-term liabilities other long-term liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 (in millions) unrecognized tax benefits (1) $ 87 $ 68 financing obligation, net of current portion (2) 84 67 other (3) 18 19 total $ 189 $ 154 (1) see note 9 income taxes for additional information on our unrecognized tax benefits. amount includes accrued interest related to this liability. (2) refer to note 12 commitments and contingencies , for additional information on our corporate headquarters lease. (3) amounts primarily consist of long term deferred rent balances related to operating leases for office space. note 12: commitments and contingencies we have material commitments and obligations that include office space leases and expected interest on long-term debt, which are not accrued on the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2015 but we expect to require future cash outflows. 88 the following tab le summarizes our material commitments and obligations as of december 31, 2015: by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years (in millions) property leases, net of sublease income (1) $ 250 $ 22 $ 45 $ 44 $ 139 expected interest payments on 2015 credit facility (2) 15 3 7 5 total (3) $ 265 $ 25 $ 52 $ 49 $ 139 (1) estimated future minimum rental payments under operating leases with non-cancelable lease terms, including our corporate headquarters lease in needham, ma. (2) the amounts included as expected interest payments on the 2015 credit facility in this table are based on the current effective interest rate and outstanding borrowings as of december 31, 2015, but, could change significantly in the future. amounts assume that our existing debt is repaid at expiration date and do not assume additional borrowings or refinancings of existing debt. refer to note 8 debt for additional information on our 2015 credit facility. (3) excluded from the table was $87 million of unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, that we have recorded in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. we do not anticipate any material changes in the next year. office lease commitments we have contractual obligations in the form of operating leases for office space for which we record the related expense on a monthly basis. certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. rent expense related to such leases is recorded on a straight-line basis. operating lease obligations expire at various dates with the latest maturity in december 2030. for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recorded rental expense of $19 million, $17 million and $11 million, respectively. corporate headquarters lease in june 2013, tripadvisor llc ( ta llc ), our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a lease, for a new corporate headquarters (the lease ). pursuant to the lease, the landlord built an approximately 280,000 square foot rental building in needham, massachusetts (the premises ), and leased the premises to ta llc as our new corporate headquarters for an initial term of 15 years and 7 months or through december 2030. ta llc also has an option to extend the term of the lease for two consecutive terms of five years each. because we were involved in the construction project and were responsible for paying a portion of the costs of normal finish work and structural elements of the premises, the company was deemed for accounting purposes to be the owner of the premises during the construction period under build to suit lease accounting guidance under gaap. therefore, the company recorded project construction costs during the construction period incurred by the landlord as a construction-in-progress asset and a related construction financing obligation on our consolidated balance sheets. the amounts that the company has paid or incurred for normal tenant improvements and structural improvements had also been recorded to the construction-in-progress asset. upon completion of construction at end of the second quarter of 2015, we evaluated the construction-in-progress asset and construction financing obligation for de-recognition under the criteria for sale-leaseback treatment under gaap. we concluded that we have forms of continued economic involvement in the facility, and therefore did not meet the provisions for sale-leaseback accounting. this determination was based on the company's continuing involvement with the property in the form of non-recourse financing to the lessor. therefore, the lease has been accounted for as a financing obligation. accordingly, we began depreciating the building asset over its estimated useful life and incurring interest expense related to the financing obligation imputed using the effective interest rate method. we will bifurcate our lease payments pursuant to the premises into: (i) a portion that is allocated to the building (a reduction to the financing obligation) and; (ii) a portion that is allocated to the land on which the building was constructed. the portion of the lease obligations allocated to the land is treated as an operating lease that commenced in 2013. the financing obligation is considered a long-term finance lease obligation and is recorded to long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. at the end of the lease term, the carrying value of the building asset and the remaining financing obligation are expected to be equal, at which time we may either surrender the leased asset as settlement of the remaining financing obligation or extend the initial term of the lease for the continued use of the asset. in 2015, the company recorded $4 million in interest expense, $2 million in depreciation expense and $1 million in rent expense related to the premises. 89 additional united states and international locations we also lease an aggregate of approximately 410,000 square feet at approximately 40 other locations across north america, europe and asia pacific, in cities such as, new york, boston, london, and beijing, primarily for our sales offices, subsidiary headquarters, and international management teams, pursuant to leases with expiration dates through june 2027. as of december 31, 2015 , future minimum commitments under our corporate headquarters lease and other non-cancelable operating leases for office space with terms of more than one year and contractual sublease income were as follows: year corporate headquarters lease (1) other operating leases sublease income total lease commitments (net of sublease income) (in millions) 2016 $ 9 $ 15 $ (2 ) $ 22 2017 9 15 (1 ) 23 2018 9 14 (1 ) 22 2019 9 14 (1 ) 22 2020 9 13 22 thereafter 97 42 139 total minimum lease payments $ 142 $ 113 $ (5 ) $ 250 (1) amount includes an $84 million financing obligation, which we have recorded in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2015, related to our corporate headquarters lease. charitable foundation excluded from the above table is our obligation to fund the foundation. our pledge obligation to the foundation has been fully satisfied as of december 31, 2015. our pledge agreement provided for an immediate satisfaction of all future annual contributions, by paying an amount equal to eight multiplied by our prior year contribution to the foundation, which was calculated as 2% of our annual oiba (see note 16 segment and geographic information ). we exercised this right under the pledge agreement in december 2015. consequently, we recorded an expense for the year ended december 31, 2015 in the amount of $67 million for the contribution, which was recorded to general and administrative expense in our consolidated statement of operations. we settled this obligation with treasury shares based on the fair value of our common stock on the date the treasury shares were issued to the foundation. we do not expect to make any future contributions to the foundation. the board of directors of the foundation is currently comprised of stephen kaufer- president and chief executive officer of the company, julie m.b. bradley- former chief financial officer of the company and seth j. kalvert- senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of the company. letters of credit as of december 31, 2015, we have issued unused letters of credit totaling $2 million, related to our property leases, which includes $1 million delivered to the landlord of our corporate headquarters as security deposit, which amount is subject to increase under certain circumstances. off-balance sheet arrangements we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of regulation s-k of the sec, that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources at december 31, 2015. 90 legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, we and our subsidiaries are parties to regulatory and legal matters arising out of our operations. these matters may involve claims involving alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights (including patent infringement), defamation, taxes, regulatory compliance privacy issues and other claims. periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated financial statements of operations. we provide disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both of these conditions if there is a reasonable probability that a loss may have been incurred and whether such loss is reasonably estimable. we base accruals made on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, the company does not believe that the final disposition of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the business. however, the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from our estimates. finally, there may be claims or actions pending or threatened against us of which we are currently not aware and the ultimate disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on us. income taxes we are also under audit by the irs and various other domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to income tax matters. we have reserved for potential adjustments to our provision for income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period for which that determination is made. additionally, we earn an increasing portion of our income, and accumulate a greater portion of cash flows, in foreign jurisdictions which we consider indefinitely reinvested. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates and incremental cash tax payments. in addition, there have been proposals to amend u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact the manner in which u.s. companies are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation will pass, if enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our u.s. tax expense and cash flows. see note 9 income taxes above for further information on potential contingencies surrounding income taxes. note 13: employee benefit plans retirement savings plan the tripadvisor retirement savings plan (the 401(k) plan ), qualifies under section 401(k) of the internal revenue code. the 401(k) plan allows participating employees, most of our u.s. employees, to make contributions of a specified percentage of their eligible compensation. participating employees may contribute up to 50% of their eligible salary on a pre-tax basis, but not more than statutory limits. employee-participants age 50 and over may also contribute an additional amount of their salary on a pre-tax tax basis up to the irs catch-up provision limit, or catch-up contributions. employees may also contribute into the 401(k) plan on an after-tax basis up to an annual maximum of 10%. the 401(k) plan has an automatic enrollment feature at 6% pre-tax. we match 50% of the first 6% of employee contributions to the plan for a maximum employer contribution of 3% of a participant's eligible earnings. the catch up contributions , are not eligible for employer matching contributions. the matching contributions portion of an employee's account, vests after two years of service. the plan also permits certain after-tax roth 401(k) contributions. additionally, at the end of the 401(k) plan year, we make a discretionary matching contribution to eligible participants. this additional discretionary matching employer contribution referred to as true up is limited to match only contributions up to 3% of eligible compensation. we also have various defined contribution plans for our international employees. our contribution to the 401(k) plan and our international defined contribution plans was $7 million, $5 million, and $5 million for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and recorded to our consolidated statements of operations, respectively, for those years. tripadvisor, inc. deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors the company also has a deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (the plan ). under the plan, eligible directors who defer their directors' fees may elect to have such deferred fees (i) applied to the purchase of share units, representing the number of shares of our common stock that could have been purchased on the date such fees would otherwise be payable, or (ii) credited to a cash fund. the cash fund will be credited with interest at an annual rate equal to the weighted average prime or base lending rate of a financial institution selected in accordance with the terms of the plan and applicable law. upon termination of service as a director of tripadvisor, a director will receive (i) with respect to share units, such number of shares of our common stock as the share units represent, and (ii) with respect to the cash fund, a cash payment. payments upon termination will be made in either one lump sum or up to five annual installments, as elected by the eligible director at the time of the deferral election. 91 under the 2011 incentive plan, 100,000 shares of tripadvisor common stock are available for issuance to non-employee directors. from the inception of the plan through december 31, 2015, a total of 5 57 shares have been reserved for such purpose. note 14: stockholders' equity preferred stock in addition to common stock, we are authorized to issue up to 100 million preferred shares, with $ 0.001 par value per share, with terms determined by our board of directors, without further action by our stockholders. at december 31, 2015, no preferred shares had been issued. common stock and class b common stock our authorized common stock consists of 1.6 billion shares of common stock with par value of $0.001 per share, and 400 million shares of class b common stock with par value of $0.001 per share. both classes of common stock qualify for and share equally in dividends, if declared by our board of directors. common stock is entitled to one vote per share and class b common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share on most matters. holders of tripadvisor common stock, acting as a single class, are entitled to elect a number of directors equal to 25% percent of the total number of directors, rounded up to the next whole number, which was three directors as of december 31, 2015. class b common stockholders may, at any time, convert their shares into common stock, on a one for one share basis. upon conversion, the class b common stock is retired and is not available for reissue. in the event of liquidation, dissolution, distribution of assets or winding-up of tripadvisor the holders of both classes of common stock have equal rights to receive all the assets of tripadvisor after the rights of the holders of the preferred stock have been satisfied. there were 133,836,242 and 132,443,111 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, respectively, at december 31, 2015 and 12,799,999 shares of class b common stock issued and outstanding at december 31, 2015. accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) accumulated other comprehensive loss is primarily comprised of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments, as follows for the periods presented: december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 (in millions) cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments (1) $ (63 ) $ (31 ) total accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (63 ) $ (31 ) (1) we consider our foreign subsidiary earnings indefinitely reinvested; therefore; deferred taxes are not provided on foreign currency translation adjustments. treasury stock on february 15, 2013, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of $250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. the repurchase program has no expiration date but may be suspended or terminated by the board of directors at any time. our board of directors will determine the price, timing, amount and method of such repurchases based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors, and any shares repurchased will be in compliance with applicable legal requirements, at prices determined to be attractive and in the best interests of both the company and its stockholders. as of december 31, 2015, we have repurchased 2,120,709 shares of outstanding common stock under the share repurchase program at an aggregate cost of $145 million. we did not repurchase any shares under this share repurchase program during the year ended december 31, 2015. as of december 31, 2015, from the authorized share repurchase program granted by the board of directors we have $105 million remaining to repurchase shares of our common stock. in december 2015, we issued 801,042 treasury shares to the foundation in settlement of all future pledge obligations. refer to note 12 commitments and contingencies , for a discussion of the foundation. we have 1,393,131 treasury shares remaining as of december 31, 2015 with an aggregate cost of $92 million. 92 dividends during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our board of directors did not declare any dividends on our outstanding common stock and do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. note 15: related party transactions relationship between expedia and tripadvisor upon consummation of the spin-off, expedia was considered a related party under gaap based on a number of factors, including, among others, common ownership of our shares and those of expedia. however, we no longer consider expedia a related party. for purposes of governing certain of the ongoing relationships between us and expedia at and after the spin-off, and to provide for an orderly transition, we and expedia entered into various agreements at the time of the spin-off, which tripadvisor has satisfied its obligations. however, tripadvisor continues to be subject to certain post-spin obligations under the tax sharing agreement. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. the full text of the tax sharing agreement is incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k as exhibit 10.2. refer to note 9 income taxes above for information regarding the status of completed and ongoing irs audits of our consolidated income tax returns with expedia to date. relationship between liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. and tripadvisor we consider liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. ( ltrip ) a related party. as of december 31, 2015, ltrip beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock, which shares constituted 13.7% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 21.3% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock is generally entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing approximately 56.1% of our voting power. refer to note 1 organization and business description above, which describes the evolution of our relationship with ltrip. we had no related party transactions with ltrip during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 or 2013. note 16: segment and geographic information segment information our reporting structure includes two reportable segments: hotel and other. hotel our hotel segment includes revenue generated from services related to hotels, including click-based and display-based advertising revenue from making hotel room night reservations available for price comparison and booking, including our instant booking feature, as well as subscription-based hotel products such as business listings, transaction-based hotel products such as jetsetter and tingo, and other revenue related to hotels. our hotel segment also includes advertising revenue from making airline reservations and cruise reservations available for price comparison and booking. our codm is also the hotel segment manager. other attractions. we provide, primarily through viator, information and services for researching and booking destination activities around the world. viator works with local operators to provide travelers with access to tours and activities in popular destinations worldwide, earning a commission for such service. in addition to its consumer-direct business, viator also provides local experiences to affiliate partners, including some of the world's top airlines, hotels and travel agencies. 93 restaurants. we have several websites that provide online and mobile reservation services that connect restaurants with diners. these websites are primarily focused currently on the european and aust ralian markets, primarily through lafourchette or thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl, www.besttables.com, and www.dimmi.com.au) . thefork.com is an online restaurant booking platform with a network of restaurant par tners primarily across europe and australia. lafourchette also offers management software solutions helping restaurants to maximize business by providing a flexible online booking, discount and data tool. we generate revenue primarily by charging a fee fo r each restaurant guest seated through the online reservation systems. vacation rentals . we offer individual property owners and property managers the ability to list their properties available for rental and connect with travelers using a subscription-based fee structure or a free-to-list, commission per booking based option. our vacation rental inventory currently includes full home rentals, condos, villas, beach rentals, cabins, cottages, and many other accommodation types. these properties are listed across a number of platforms, including tripadvisor vacation rentals, u.s.-based flipkey and vacation home rentals, and european-based holiday lettings and niumba businesses. each operating segment in our other segment has a segment manager who is directly accountable to and maintains regular contact with our chief operating decision maker to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the segment. our primary operating metric for evaluating segment performance is adjusted ebitda, which is a non-gaap financial measure. we define adjusted ebitda as net income (loss) plus: (1) provision for income taxes; (2) other income (expense), net; (3) depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal use software and website development; (4) amortization of intangible assets; (5) stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations; (6) goodwill, long-lived asset and intangible asset impairments; and (7) other non-recurring expenses.. such amounts are detailed in our segment reconciliation below. in addition, please see our discussion of adjusted ebitda in the section of this annual report on form 10-k entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the following tables present our segment information for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. we record depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations, other income (expense), net, other non-recurring expenses, net, and income taxes, which are excluded from segment operating performance, in corporate and unallocated. in addition, we do not report our assets or capital expenditures by segment as it would not be meaningful. we also do not regularly provide asset, capital expenditure or depreciation information by segment to our codm. our consolidated general and administrative expenses, excluding stock-based compensation costs, are shared by all operating segments. each operating segment receives an allocated charge based on the segment's percentage of the company's total personnel costs. year ended december 31, 2015 hotel other corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,263 $ 229 $ $ 1,492 adjusted ebitda (1) 472 (6 ) 466 depreciation (57 ) (57 ) amortization of intangible assets (36 ) (36 ) stock-based compensation (72 ) (72 ) non-cash charitable contribution (2) (67 ) (67 ) other non-recurring expenses (2 ) (2 ) operating income (loss) $ 472 $ (6 ) $ (234 ) 232 other income, net 7 income before income taxes 239 provision for income taxes (41 ) net income $ 198 94 year ended december 31, 2014 hotel other corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,135 $ 111 $ $ 1,246 adjusted ebitda (1)(3) 472 (4 ) 468 depreciation (47 ) (47 ) amortization of intangible assets (18 ) (18 ) stock-based compensation (63 ) (63 ) operating income (loss) $ 472 $ (4 ) $ (128 ) 340 other expense, net (18 ) income before income taxes 322 provision for income taxes (96 ) net income $ 226 year ended december 31, 2013 hotel other corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 899 $ 46 $ $ 945 adjusted ebitda (1)(3) 384 (5 ) 379 depreciation (30 ) (30 ) amortization of intangible assets (6 ) (6 ) stock-based compensation (49 ) (49 ) operating income (loss) $ 384 $ (5 ) $ (85 ) 294 other expense, net (10 ) income before income taxes 284 provision for income taxes (79 ) net income $ 205 (1) includes allocated general and administrative expenses in our hotel segment of $85 million, $87 million and $72 million; and in our other segment of $28 million, $18 million and $9 million for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (2) represents a charitable obligation which was settled in company stock and therefore excluded from adjusted ebitda. refer to note 12 commitments and contingencies for a discussion of the foundation. (3) hotel segment adjusted ebitda includes charitable contributions to the foundation which were funded in cash of $8 million and $7 million, for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. our pledge obligation was calculated at 2.0% of oiba in 2014 and 2013, which was calculated as follows: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 (in millions) adjusted ebitda $ 468 $ 379 depreciation (47 ) (30 ) oiba (1) 421 349 amortization of intangible assets (18 ) (6 ) stock-based compensation (63 ) (49 ) other expense, net (18 ) (10 ) provision for income taxes (96 ) (79 ) net income $ 226 $ 205 (1) we defined oiba as net income (loss) plus: (1) provision for income taxes; (2) other income (expense), net; (3) stock-based compensation; (4) amortization of intangible assets; and (5) non-recurring expenses. this operating metric was only used by our management to calculate our annual obligation to the foundation. 95 revenue and geographic information we derive the substantial portion of our revenue through the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. in addition, we earn revenue from a combination of: subscription-based and transaction-based offerings from our business listings products; subscription and commission-based offerings from our vacation rentals products; room reservations sold through our jetsetter and tingo brands; destination activities sold primarily through viator; and online restaurant reservations booked primarily through lafourchette, or thefork.com. we also derive revenue from content licensing. the following table presents revenue by product for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) click-based advertising $ 956 $ 870 $ 696 display-based advertising 159 140 119 subscription, transaction and other 377 236 130 total revenue $ 1,492 $ 1,246 $ 945 the following table presents revenue by geographic area, the united states, the united kingdom and all other countries, based on the geographic location of our websites for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) revenue united states $ 739 $ 593 $ 463 united kingdom 215 191 141 all other countries 538 462 341 total revenue $ 1,492 $ 1,246 $ 945 the following table presents property and equipment, net for the united states and all other countries based on the geographic location of the assets for the periods presented: december 31, 2015 2014 (in millions) property and equipment, net united states $ 217 $ 170 all other countries 30 25 total $ 247 $ 195 note 17: interest income and other, net the following table presents the detail of interest income and other, net, for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) net loss, realized and unrealized, on foreign exchange and foreign currency derivative contracts and other, net $ (4 ) $ (10 ) $ (2 ) interest income 1 1 2 gain on sale of business (1) 20 - - total $ 17 $ (9 ) $ - (1) see note 3 acquisitions and dispositions for information regarding our gain on sale of business. 96 note 18: quarterly financial information (unaudited) the following table presents selected unaudited financial information for the eight quarters in the period ended december 31, 2015. the results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of future quarterly results and, accordingly, period to period comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. three months ended march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 (in millions, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2015 revenue $ 363 $ 405 $ 415 $ 309 operating income (loss) (1) 90 79 88 (25 ) net income 63 58 74 3 basic earnings per share (2) $ 0.44 $ 0.40 $ 0.51 $ 0.02 diluted earnings per share (2) $ 0.43 $ 0.40 $ 0.51 $ 0.02 year ended december 31, 2014 revenue $ 281 $ 323 $ 354 $ 288 operating income 96 100 84 60 net income 68 68 54 36 basic earnings per share (2) $ 0.48 $ 0.48 $ 0.38 $ 0.25 diluted earnings per share (2) $ 0.47 $ 0.47 $ 0.37 $ 0.25 (1) during the fourth quarter of 2015, we recognized an incremental $59 million charge over the third quarter of 2015, related to a non-cash charitable contribution recorded to general and administrative expense on our consolidated statement of operations. refer to note 12 commitments and contingencies for a discussion of the foundation. (2) earnings per share is computed independently for each of the quarters presented. therefore, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share may not equal the total computed for the year. 97 ite m 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a . controls and procedures evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures as of december 31, 2015, our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act. based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer concluded that, as of december 31, 2015, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the exchange act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the securities and exchange commission's, or the sec's, rules and forms, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. changes in internal control over financial reporting there were no changes to our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended december 31, 2015 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. management's report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rule 13a-15(f) of the exchange act. internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. under the supervision and with the participation of the company's management, including the chief executive officer and president and the chief financial officer, the company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management evaluated the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015. pursuant to exchange act rule 13a-15(d) or 15d-15(d), management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2015, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. management has reviewed its assessment with the audit committee. kpmg llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015, as stated in their report which is included below. limitations on effectiveness of controls and procedures management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. 98 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders tripadvisor, inc.: we have audited tripadvisor, inc.'s (the company) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). tripadvisor, inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, tripadvisor, inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended december 31, 2015, and our report dated february 18, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp boston, massachusetts february 18, 2016 99 item 9b . other information on february 15, 2016, the company entered into an employment agreement with dermot halpin, president of vacation rentals. originally, mr. halpin was hired to work from the company's london office; however, more recently, mr. halpin relocated to the company's corporate headquarters in needham, massachusetts, and his employment arrangement was modified to reflect that change, among other things. more specifically, the company and mr. halpin have agreed as follows: mr. halpin will receive a base salary of $390,000; mr. halpin will have a target of 50% of his base salary for an annual discretionary bonus; while mr. halpin's employment may be terminated with or without cause, if mr. halpin is terminated without cause (as defined in the agreement) or mr. halpin resigns for good reason (as defined in the agreement), mr. halpin will receive severance equivalent to six months of his base salary. in addition, in such event, the company will consider an acceleration of equity that would have vested during the 6 month period following the termination, subject to approval of compensation committee. mr. halpin will also receive a personal travel allowance of $20,000 (grossed up for tax) and the company will pay the cost of tax advice for mr. halpin in connection with his tax returns for 2015 and 2016. part iii item 10 . directors, executive officers and corporate governance the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2016 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2015. item 11 . executive compensation the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2016 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2015. item 12 . security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2016 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2015. item 13 . certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2016 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2015. item 14 . principal accounting fees and services the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2016 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2015. 100 part iv item 15 . exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) the following is filed as part of this annual report on form 10-k: 1. consolidated financial statements : the consolidated financial statements and report of independent registered public accounting firms required by this item are included in part ii,risk factors 10 "risk factors". moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. we caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. we expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on form 10-q for future periods and current reports on form 8-k as we file them with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or the sec, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through current reports on form 8-k or otherwise, for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. 1 part i item 1. business overview tripadvisor, inc., by and through its subsidiaries, owns and operates a portfolio of leading online travel brands. tripadvisor, our flagship brand, is the world's largest travel site, and its mission is to help people around the world plan, book and experience the perfect trip. we accomplish this by, among other things, aggregating millions of travelers' reviews and opinions about destinations, accommodations, activities and attractions, and restaurants worldwide, thereby creating the foundation for a unique platform that enables users to research and plan their travel experiences. our platform also enables users to compare real-time pricing and availability for these experiences as well as to book hotels, flights, cruises, vacation rentals, tours, activities and attractions, and restaurants, on either a tripadvisor site or app, or a travel partner site or app. our tripadvisor-branded websites include tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the tripadvisor website in 48 markets and 28 languages worldwide. our tripadvisor-branded websites reached nearly 390 million average monthly unique visitors in our seasonal peak during the year ended december 31, 2016, according to our internal log files. we currently feature approximately 465 million reviews and opinions on 7 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do including 1,060,000 hotels and accommodations and 835,000 vacation rentals, 4.3 million restaurants and 760,000 activities and attractions worldwide. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we manage and operate the following 23 other travel media brands, connected by the common goal of providing users the most comprehensive travel-planning and trip-taking resources in the travel industry: www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.citymaps.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.gateguru.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.housetrip.com, www.independenttraveler.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl, www.besttables.com, www.dimmi.com.au , and www.en.couverts.nl), www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.smartertravel.com, www.tingo.com, www.travelpod.com, www.tripbod.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and www.viator.com. our business model our platforms connect users wishing to plan and book the best travel experiences with providers of travel accommodations and travel services worldwide. we manage our business in two reportable segments: hotel and non-hotel. we derive the majority of our revenue from our hotel segment. our hotel business accounted for 80%, 85%, and 91%, of our company's consolidated revenue in the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and includes the following revenue sources: click-based advertising and transaction revenue. our largest source of hotel segment revenue is generated from click-based advertising on tripadvisor-branded websites, which is primarily comprised of contextually-relevant booking links to our partners' sites. our click-based advertising partners are predominantly online travel agencies, or otas, and direct suppliers in the hotel product category. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc , basis, with payments from advertisers determined by the number of users who click on a link multiplied by the price that partner is willing to pay for that click, or hotel shopper lead. cpc rates are determined in a dynamic, competitive auction process that enables our partners to use our proprietary, automated bidding system to submit cpc bids to have their hotel rates and availability listed on our site. transaction revenue is generated from our instant booking feature, which enables the merchant of record, generally an ota or hotel partner, to pay a commission to tripadvisor for a user that completes a hotel reservation on our website. display-based and subscription-based advertising revenue. advertising partners can promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner through a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites. our display-based advertising clients are predominately direct suppliers of hotels, airlines 2 and cruises, as well as destination marketing organizations. we also accept display advertising from otas and attractions, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm basis. subscription-based advertising is offered to hotels, b&amp;bs and other specialty lodging properties. this advertising product is sold for a flat fee and enables subscribers to list, for a contracted period of time, a website url, email address and phone number on our tripadvisor-branded websites, as well as to post special offers for travelers . other hotel revenue. our other hotel revenue primarily includes revenue from non-tripadvisor branded websites, such as smartertravel.com, independenttraveler.com, and bookingbuddy.com, which includes click-based advertising revenue, display-based advertising revenue, hotel room reservations sold through these websites, and advertising revenue from making cruise reservations available for price comparison and booking. a significant percentage of our users are not hotel shoppers and visit tripadvisor sites without navigating to pages that contain a listing of hotels in a particular city or a specific hotel's page. these users contribute to our non-hotel segment revenue, which accounted for 20%, 15%, and 9% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and consists of the following businesses, or operating segments: attractions. we provide information and services for users to research and book activities and attractions in popular travel destinations through our dedicated attractions business, viator. we generate revenue by charging the operators a commission for each transaction we facilitate through our online reservation systems. in addition to its consumer-direct business, viator also powers activity and attractions booking capabilities to its affiliate partners, including some of the world's top airlines, hotel chains and online and offline travel agencies. viator's bookable inventory is available on www.viator.com as well as on tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile applications. restaurants. through our restaurant reservations business the fork we provide information and services for users to research and book restaurants. the fork is an online restaurant booking platform operating on a number of sites (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl, www.besttables.com, www.dimmi.com.au , and www.en.couverts.nl), with a network of restaurant partners primarily across europe and australia. the fork generates revenue by charging our restaurant partners a fee for each restaurant guest, or seated diner, that we facilitate through our online reservation systems. the fork also provides flexible online booking and a premium data and analytics tool, for which the restaurant owner pays a subscription fee. the fork's bookable inventory is also available on tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile applications. vacation rentals. we provide information and services for users to research and book vacation and short-term rental properties, including full home rentals, condominiums, villas, beach rentals, cabins and cottages. the vacation rentals business generates revenue by offering individual property owners and property managers, the ability to list their properties on our websites and mobile applications through a free-to-list, commission-based option, and to a lesser extent, an annual subscription-based fee structure. these properties are listed on a number of platforms, including www.flipkey.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com , www.niumba.com, and www.vacationhomerentals.com , as well as on our tripadvisor-branded websites. our growth strategy we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand-building, and relationships with advertisers and other partners to expand our business and enhance our global competitive position. we continue to focus on the following areas to grow our business: delivering a great user experience. in 2016, in addition to completing the global instant booking rollout to all users on all devices worldwide, we also made it easier for users to find the best room prices on our site, whether offered through hotel metasearch or instant booking. we believe our continued progress in creating end-to-end travel solutions on our platform will result in better user experiences, and ultimately drive higher conversion to transactions for our partners and higher revenue per hotel shopper for our hotel business. our innovative culture supports bringing product enhancements to market at speed. in doing so, we believe that we can continue to improve the user experience and 3 engagement by growing, among other things, high-quality content, best room price availability on hotel listings, in-destination bookable supply, and real-time email and push notifications, thereby also enhancing our competitive positioning. increasing traffic to our platform. we seek to amplify our global brand and products through various online and offline performance-based marketing channels in order to increase the number of users who navigate to our site either directly, also known as domain direct traffic, or from other marketing channels. we have leveraged, at different points in time, a number of offline advertising channels, including permanent branding campaigns such as tripadvisor-branded travel awards, certificates, stickers and badges and television advertising. we also leverage a number of online advertising channels, including: customer relationship management email campaigns, or crm ; social networks; sem , which promotes websites by increasing their visibility in search engine results through paid placements, contextual advertising, and paid inclusions; and retargeting, which targets consumers based on their search behavior. in addition, for sources of user traffic, we rely on search engine optimization, or seo, which promotes websites with relevant and current content that rank well in organic, or unpaid search engine results, as well as referrals from partners whose sites contain links to tripadvisor content, badges or widgets. in order to continue growing unique visitors to our websites and enhancing the quality of those visits, we intend to invest in, some or all, of the aforementioned channels, as well as any new channels that we may identify in the future. enhancing our mobile offerings . innovating and improving our mobile products is a key priority as mobile devices continue to proliferate and consumers increasingly conduct more internet searches and commerce on these devices. during the year ended december 31, 2016, nearly half of our average monthly unique visitors came from mobile phone, growing 29% year-over-year, according to our log files. we anticipate that the growth rate in mobile visitors will continue to exceed the growth rate of our overall monthly unique visitors, resulting in an increased proportion of users continuing to use their mobile devices to access the full range of services available on our websites and applications. we are investing significant resources to improve the features, functionality, engagement, and commercialization of our travel products on our mobile websites and applications. growing attractions, restaurants and vacation rentals businesses. a significant percentage of our users come to our websites for content on 760,000 activities and attractions, 4.3 million restaurants, and 835,000 vacation rentals, and we believe that continuing to build in-destination listings gives us a unique opportunity to delight users in more moments during more trips. we continue to execute this strategy and increase the stickiness of our products by investing in increasing bookable supply and strengthening our user engagement through our mobile platform. our key strengths our mission is to help people around the world plan, book and experience the perfect trip. in order to achieve this goal and our growth strategies, we leverage our key assets a loyal travel community, rich user-generated content, end-to-end travel experience, continuous technological innovation and global reach as follows: loyal travel community . we believe that we have the largest breadth of travel-planning content in the global travel industry and, as a result, travelers gravitate to our websites to research and plan their trips. we view our large, highly engaged and loyal community of travelers as a valuable resource and provide them an interactive platform to share their experiences. after completing their trip, consumers can return to our websites to write reviews to give back to the community that helped them plan their trip. to encourage better experiences for travelers and to create a feedback loop between the hospitality industry and travelers, we engage hospitality management representatives to respond to reviews of their properties on our website. through this cycle, more content is generated, which further drives community, traffic, loyalty and higher search engine rankings, all of which leads to additional content creation. we believe this sense of community among users and brand loyalty is a key competitive advantage for tripadvisor. rich user-generated content. to help our users plan their trip, the tripadvisor platform contains 465 million reviews and opinions as well as 90 million candid traveler photos on 7 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do. this valuable content creation reached 290 contributions per minute 4 in 2016, up approximately 40% from december 31, 2015. in addition, our tools and travel content are available to users around the world in 28 different languages on all devices, including mobile phone, desktop and tablet. end-to-end travel experience. tripadvisor products enable users to research, plan, price compare and book travel in a comprehensive, end-to-end fashion across a portfolio of 1,060,000 hotels, 835,000 vacation rentals, 4.3 million restaurants and 760,000 activities and attractions worldwide. in addition to user-generated content, our websites and applications feature price comparison tools and search functionality with links to partner websites, including travel advertisers, on which users can find and book their travel arrangements at the best prices. we also enable users to book hotels, activities and attractions and restaurant reservations on our site. these capabilities cover all phases of the travel experience, from pre-trip research and booking to in-destination booking to post-trip review submission. technology and product . continuous product testing and speed to market are two of our most important priorities, as they enable us to create a richer user experience. we operate on a regular product release cycle, where releases contain new product features for our websites and mobile applications. our ongoing commitment to innovation also extends to content syndication and review collection partnerships, as we leverage our technology and content for the benefit of other websites. in addition, we utilize manual and electronic fraud detection in order to maintain the quality and authenticity of user reviews. global reach . we are a global company, evidenced both through the reach of our portfolio of branded websites and through our in-market staffing in 24 countries. as of december 31, 2016, we had 1,614 employees based outside of the united states, representing approximately 49% of our employee population. as of december 31, 2016, we had branded websites in 48 markets outside the united states in 28 languages. we have approximately 1.6 billion review translations, and are committed to continuing to improve the in-country user experience and the local content coverage for all of our points-of-sale. we believe that the universally-relevant content and community of our core tripadvisor platform and our other brands uniquely position us to appeal to travelers throughout the world. our industry we operate in the global travel industry, focusing exclusively on online travel activity and the online advertising market. according to phocuswright, global travel spending is expected to be greater than $1.3 trillion in 2017, or an increase of 5% over 2016. recent trends show that, each year, an increasing percentage of global travel spending is conducted online through supplier websites and otas. we believe that this trend will continue as online penetration continues to grow, as more consumers around the world gain broadband access to the internet, as smartphone, tablets and other mobile computing devices continue to proliferate, and as travel activity increases along with an expanding middle class in certain countries like china and india. we believe that the internet will continue to become even more integral to the travel-planning process due to increasing worldwide online penetration, particularly given the capabilities that the internet provides travelers, including the ability to refine searches, compare destinations, read and contribute user-generated content, view real-time pricing and determine availability, complete bookings, and access information while in-destination. travel-related advertisers continue to allocate greater percentages of their marketing budgets to online channels, mirroring the trend in consumer media consumption generally. given the size and growth of the global travel market, as well as a growing percentage of travel transactions taking place online, we believe that travel-related businesses will continue to devote significant marketing dollars to online platforms in order to advertise their travel products and services. our competition we compete in rapidly evolving and competitive markets. we face competition for content, users, advertisers, online travel search and price comparison services or what is known in the industry as hotel metasearch, and online 5 reservations. in the competition to attract users to our platform, we rely on our ability to acquire traffic through offline brand recognition and brand-direct efforts such as online search, email and television. these marketing strategies can be impacted by competitive site content, changes to our website architecture and page designs, changes to search engine ranking algorithms, updates in competitor advertising strategies, or changes to display ordering in search engine results such as preferred placement for internal products offered by search engines. we compete with different types of companies in the various markets and geographies we participate in, including large and small companies in the travel space as well as broader service providers. more specifically: in our hotel segment, we face competition from otas (including expedia, inc. and the priceline group, inc. and certain of their respective subsidiaries), hotel metasearch providers (including trivago, kayak, ctrip.com international, ltd., and hotelscombined), large online search, social media, and marketplace companies (including google, microsoft bing, yahoo, baidu, facebook, alibaba, and amazon), traditional offline travel agencies, and global hotel chains seeking to promote direct bookings. we also face competition in our non-hotel segment. our attractions business competes with traditional travel agencies, online providers, wholesalers, and individual tour operators. our restaurants business competes with other online restaurant reservation services, such as yelp and opentable (a subsidiary of priceline), and local or regional providers. our vacation rentals business competes with companies focused on alternative lodging and shared accommodations, including airbnb and homeaway (a subsidiary of expedia). as the industry shifts towards online travel services and the technology supporting it continues to evolve, including platforms such as smartphone and tablet computing devices, we anticipate that the existing competitive landscape will continue to change, new competitors may emerge, and industry consolidation may continue. our commercial relationships we have a number of commercial relationships that are important to the success of our business. although these relationships are memorialized in agreements, many of these agreements are for limited terms or are terminable at will or on short notice. as a result, we work hard to ensure the mutual success of these relationships. we have commercial relationships with the majority of the world's leading otas as well as a variety of other travel suppliers pursuant to which these companies purchase traveler leads from us, generally on a click-based advertising basis. for the year ended december 31, 2016, our two most significant click-based and transaction advertising partners were expedia and priceline, including certain of their respective brands. our instant booking feature enables hotel shoppers to book directly with a third-party partner, without leaving our website. to facilitate this user experience, we have entered into contracts with the majority of the world's top hotel chains, including accor, best western international, carlson rezidor, choice hotels, hyatt hotels, marriott international, hilton, and wyndham worldwide. we have also partnered with priceline and expedia whereby certain of their online travel brands participate in our instant booking feature. as a result, users are able to book more than 560,000 hotels worldwide, powered by our partners, without leaving the tripadvisor site or mobile experience. marketing and promotions our marketing programs are intended to build and maintain the value of our brands, promote consumer engagement and contributions, drive qualified clicks to our partners and strategically position our brands in the market. our long-term success depends on our continued ability to maintain and increase the overall number of users flowing through our platform in a cost-effective manner, to engage users throughout the travel planning and booking phases, and to attract consumers who will share their reviews from their trips. we reach consumers across mobile and desktop devices through our online traffic acquisition programs, such as sem, retargeting and online marketing campaigns, as well as through our offline brand campaigns. we also utilize our crm channels by sending relevant and engaging communications to our members via email. we have a robust global public relations program that yields placements on a constant basis in major print and online publications. from 2013 to 2015, we invested in television advertising campaigns to promote the tripadvisor brand as well as to publicize our new price comparison 6 and booking product features. during 2016, we began utilizing promotional campaigns, such as sweepstakes and giveaways, to educate and reward consumers for using our instant booking product. we continue to explore new ways to build brand awareness and growth in both new and existing marketing channels, which may include traditional media and social media channels including facebook and twitter to deepen user engagement. operations and technology we have assembled a team of highly skilled software engineers, computer scientists, data scientists, network engineers, and systems engineers whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas, including a wide variety of open source operating systems, databases, languages, analytics, networking, scalable web architecture, operations, and warehousing technologies. we make significant investments in product and feature development, data management, personalization technologies, scalable infrastructures, networking, data warehousing, and search engine technologies. the tripadvisor-branded websites are powered primarily using java programming language. our systems infrastructure, web and database servers for tripadvisor-branded websites are housed at two geographically separate facilities and have multiple communication links as well as continuous monitoring and engineering support. each facility is fully self-sufficient and operational with its own hardware, networking, software, and content, and is structured in an active/passive, fully redundant configuration. substantially all of our software components, data, and content are replicated in multiple datacenters and development centers, as well as being backed up at offsite locations. our systems are monitored and protected though multiple layers of security. several of our individual subsidiaries and businesses, including viator, have their own data infrastructure and technology teams. intellectual property our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology and trade secrets, is an important component of our business. we rely on our intellectual property rights in our content, proprietary technology, software code, ratings indexes, databases of reviews and forum content, images, videos, graphics and brands. we have acquired some of our intellectual property rights through licenses and content agreements with third parties. these licenses and agreements may place restrictions on the use of our intellectual property. we protect our intellectual property by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, as well as on international, national, state and common law rights. in addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. we protect our brands by pursuing the trademark registration of our core brands, as appropriate, maintaining our trademark portfolio, securing contractual trademark rights protection when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. we also register copyrights and domain names as deemed appropriate. additionally, we protect our trademarks, domain names and copyrights with the use of intellectual property licenses and an enforcement program. we have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future inventions, as circumstances may warrant. however, many patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us. government regulation we are subject to a number of united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet, many of which are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. these may involve user privacy, libel, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation and online payment services. in particular, we are subject to united states federal and state and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. 7 united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. in addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations is often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate. there are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the united states congress, various state legislative bodies, and foreign governments concerning data protection, which could affect us. in addition, we provide advertising data and information and conduct marketing activities that are subject to united states federal and state consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices, domestically and internationally. the united states and european union have begun to adopt legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, and liability for third-party activities. united states federal, state and foreign governments have considered from time to time alternative legislative and regulatory proposals that would increase regulation on internet advertising. it is impossible to accurately predict whether new taxes or regulations will be imposed on our services, and whether or how we might be affected. increased regulation of the internet could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operational results. we are subject to laws that require protection of user privacy and user data. in our processing of reservations, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data in the united states, europe and asia. this data is increasingly subject to laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the commission of the european union through its data protection directive and variations and implementations of that directive in the member states of the european union. the enactment, interpretation and application of these laws is in a state of flux, and the interpretation and application of such laws may vary from country to country. corporate history, equity ownership and voting control tripadvisor was co-founded in february 2000 by stephen kaufer, our current president and chief executive officer. in april 2004, tripadvisor was acquired by iac/interactivecorp, or iac. in august 2005, iac spun-off its portfolio of travel brands, including tripadvisor, into a separate newly-formed delaware corporation called expedia, inc., or expedia. on december 20, 2011 expedia completed a spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly-traded delaware corporation. we refer to this second spin-off transaction as the spin-off. following the spin-off, on december 21, 2011, tripadvisor began trading on the nasdaq global select market, or nasdaq, as an independent public company under the symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of 4,799,848 shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates. following this transaction, liberty beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip. simultaneously, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. we refer to this transaction as the liberty spin off. as a result of the liberty spin-off, effective august 27, 2014, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor. as a result of these transactions, as of december 31, 2016, ltrip beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock, which shares constitute 13.8% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 21.5% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock is generally entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing approximately 56.4% of our voting power. 8 financial information about segments and geographic information our reporting structure includes two reportable segments: hotel and non-hotel. our non-hotel reportable segment consists of three operating segments, which includes our attractions, restaurants and vacation rentals businesses. the segments are determined based on how the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information and evaluates performance for operating decision-making purposes, including allocation of resources. financial information related to our two reportable segments and geographic information required herein is contained in note 17 segment and geographic information , in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, expedia and priceline, each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and together accounted for 46%, 46% and 46% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. nearly all of this concentration of revenue is recorded in our hotel segment for these reporting periods. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, expedia accounted for 12% and 11%, respectively, of our total accounts receivable. employees as of december 31, 2016, we had 3,327 employees. of these employees, approximately 51% were based in the united states. we believe we have good relationships with our employees, including relationships with employees represented by international works councils or other similar organizations. seasonality traveler expenditures in the global travel market tend to follow a seasonal pattern. as such, expenditures by travel advertisers to market to potential travelers and, therefore, our financial performance, tend to be seasonal as well. as a result, our financial results tend to be seasonally highest in the third quarter of a year, as it is a key period for travel research and trip-taking, compared to the first and fourth quarters which represent seasonal low points. further significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends. additional information we maintain a corporate website at ir.tripadvisor.com. except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the sec. we make available, free of charge through the investor relations section of our website, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a) or section 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. we post our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers, senior financial officers and directors, on our corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. our code of business conduct and ethics complies with item 406 of sec regulation s-k and the rules of nasdaq. we intend to disclose any changes to the code that affect the provisions required by item 406 of regulation s-k, and any waivers of the code of ethics for our executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, on our corporate website. 9 ite m 1a. risk factors you should consider carefully the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report as they may impact our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations or financial condition. if any of the events described in the following risks factors occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to continue to increase visitors to our websites and mobile apps and to cost-effectively convert these visitors into revenue-generating users, our revenue, financial results and business could be harmed. our long term success depends on our continued ability to maintain and increase the overall number of visitors flowing through our platforms in a cost effective manner, to engage users throughout the travel planning and booking phases and to attract consumers who will share their reviews from their trips. the primary asset that we use to attract visitors to our websites and convert these visitors into engaged users and bookers is our ability to collect or create, organize and distribute high-quality, commercially valuable content and products that meet users' specific interests. our traffic and user engagement could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to increased competition, reduced consumer awareness of our brands, declines or inefficiencies in traffic acquisition, and macroeconomic conditions. in the past year, certain of our competitors have launched advertising campaigns expressly designed to drive consumer traffic directly to their websites, and these campaigns may negatively impact traffic to our site. there can be no assurances that we will continue to provide content and products in a cost-effective manner or in a manner that meets rapidly changing consumer demand. any failure to obtain and manage content and products in a cost-effective manner that will engage users, or any failure to provide content and products that are perceived as useful, reliable and trustworthy, could adversely affect user experiences and their repeat behavior, reduce traffic to our websites and negatively impact our business and financial performance. our dedication to making the user experience our highest priority may cause us to prioritize rapid innovation and user engagement over short-term financial results. we strive to create the best experience for our users, providing them with the information, research and tools to enable them to plan, book, and experience the perfect trip. we believe that in doing so we will increase our rates of conversion, revenue per shopper and, ultimately, our financial performance over the long-term. we have taken actions in the past and may continue to make decisions going forward that have the effect of reducing our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions benefit the aggregate user experience. for example, we may introduce changes to existing products or new products that direct users away from formats or use cases where we have a proven means of monetization, e.g. our instant book product. in addition, our approach of putting users first may negatively impact our relationship with existing or prospective advertisers. these actions and practices could result in a loss of advertisers, which in turn could harm our results of operations. the short-term reductions in revenue or profitability could be more severe than we anticipate or these decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with users and advertisers, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from advertising and any significant reduction in spending by advertisers or redirections of advertising spend could harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based advertising. we enter into master advertising contracts with our advertising partners, however, these agreements are generally limited to matters such as privacy and compliance, payment terms and conditions, termination and indemnities and most can be terminated by our partners at will or on short notice. our ability to grow advertising revenue with our existing or new advertising partners is dependent in large part on our ability to generate revenue for them relative to other alternatives. advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in such advertising does not generate sales leads, customers, bookings, or 10 revenue and profit on a cost-effective basis. our ability to provide value to our advertising partners depends on a number of factors, including acceptance of online advertising versus more traditional forms of advertising or more effective models, competitiveness of our products, traffic quality, perception of our platform, availability and accuracy of analytics and measurement solutions to demonstrate our value, and macroeconomic conditions, whether in the advertising industry generally, among specific types of marketers or within particular geographies. we cannot guarantee that our current advertisers will fulfill their obligations under existing contracts, continue to advertise beyond the terms of existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts with us. click-based advertising accounts for the majority of our advertising revenue. our cpc pricing for click-based advertising depends, in part, on competition between advertisers. if our large advertisers become less competitive with each other, merge with each other or with our competitors, focus more on per-click profit than on traffic volume, or are able to reduce cpcs, this could have an adverse impact on our click-based advertising revenue which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a relatively small number of significant advertising partners and any reduction in spending by or loss of these partners could seriously harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of advertising partners and rely significantly on our relationships. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2016, our two most significant advertising partners, expedia and priceline (and their subsidiaries), accounted for a combined 46% of total revenue. while we enter into master advertising contracts with our partners, the terms of these agreements generally address matters such as privacy and compliance, payment terms and conditions, termination and indemnities and most of these contracts can be terminated by our partners at will or on short notice. if any of our significant advertisers were to cease or significantly curtail advertising on our websites, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenue over a relatively short period of time which would have a material impact on our business. changes in internet search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation, could have a negative impact on traffic for our sites and ultimately, our business and results of operations. we rely heavily on internet search engines, such as google, to generate traffic to our websites, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords as well as through free, or organic, search. pricing and operating dynamics for these traffic sources can change rapidly, both technically and competitively. search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user's search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. in addition, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our websites to place lower in organic search query results. if a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our websites or those of our partners, or if competitive dynamics impact the cost or effectiveness of seo or sem in a negative manner, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected. furthermore, our failure to successfully manage our seo and sem strategies could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic. in addition, to the extent that google or other leading search or metasearch engines that have a significant presence in our key markets, disintermediate otas or travel content providers, whether by offering their own comprehensive travel planning or shopping capabilities, or by referring leads to suppliers, other favored partners or themselves directly, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. to the extent these actions have a negative effect on search results and traffic to our site, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. we also rely on application marketplaces, such as apple's app store and google's play, to drive downloads of our applications. in the future, apple, google or other marketplace operators may make changes to their marketplaces that make access to our products more difficult. for example, our applications may receive unfavorable treatment compared to the promotion and placement of competing applications, such as the order in which they appear within marketplaces. similarly, if problems arise in our relationships with providers of application marketplaces, traffic to our site and our user growth could be harmed. 11 we continue to focus on our instant booking feature despite anticipated and unanticipated challenges and risks which could have a negative impact on our business and financial performance. instant booking is a feature that enables users to book a hotel reservation directly with a hotel or online travel agency partner while remaining on the tripadvisor website. we believe that allowing users to book directly online without leaving the tripadvisor site will result in a better user experience, increased user engagement and, ultimately, additional revenue to the company. we began rolling out this feature out the u.s. in 2014 and completed the roll out in international markets in 2016. we are currently focused on (i) improving the shopping experience to drive increased user engagement, better conversion and more bookings, and (ii) continuing to earn users' trust as their booking site of choice. there are, however, additional risks associated with this feature. currently our instant booking feature is monetizing at a lower revenue per hotel shopper rate compared to our metasearch feature. while we expect to close this monetization gap, primarily by continuing to streamline our booking path to enhance user experience, persistently promoting the tripadvisor brand as a booking channel and continuing to seek partners with strong branding and supply channels, there is no guarantee that these initiatives will ultimately be successful and, if not, our revenue may be materially adversely affected. in addition, instant booking revenue recorded under the consumption model is recognized at the time the traveler completes his or her stay. comparatively, revenue recognized under our metasearch feature is recorded when a traveler makes the click-through to the travel partners' websites. in future periods, greater contribution of revenue from our instant booking consumption model would result in additional revenue recognized at the time of a consumed stay and thus a shift in the timing of our revenue recognition. consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates new challenges and, if we are unable to operate effectively on mobile devices, our business may be adversely affected. the number of people who access the internet through mobile devices, such as mobile phones, has increased substantially in the last few years and we anticipate that the rate of use of these devices will continue to grow. the mobile market in general remains a rapidly evolving market. as new devices and platforms are released, users may begin consuming content in a manner that is more difficult to monetize. advertising opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices. in addition, given the device sizes and technical limitations of these devices, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their hotel, restaurant and attractions activity. to address these growing user demands, we continue to extend our platform to develop and improve upon our mobile applications and monetization strategies. however, currently, we monetize users of mobile phone devices at a significantly lower rate compared to users who access our websites through desktop computers or tablets. if we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and websites optimized for mobile phone devices and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile offerings are not used by consumers, our future growth and results of operations could be negatively impacted. declines or disruptions in the economy in general and travel industry in particular could adversely affect our businesses and financial performance. our businesses and financial performance are affected by the health of the global economy generally as well as the travel industry and leisure travel in particular. sales of travel services tend to decline or grow more slowly during economic downturns and recessions when consumers engage in less discretionary spending, are concerned about unemployment or economic weakness, have reduced access to credit or experience other concerns that reduce their ability or willingness to travel. the global economy may be adversely impacted by unforeseen events beyond our control including incidents of actual or threatened terrorism, regional hostilities or instability, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters, political instability and health concerns (including epidemics or pandemics), defaults on government debt, significant increases in fuel and energy costs, tax increases and other matters that could reduce discretionary spending, tightening of credit markets and further declines in consumer confidence. decreased travel expenditures could reduce the demand for our services and have a negative impact on our business, working capital and financial performance. 12 in addition, the uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum in which a majority of voters voted to exit the european union ( brexit ). since the referendum, global markets and foreign currency exchange rates have experienced increased volatility, including a sharp decline in the value of the british pound sterling relative to the u.s. dollar. to leave the european union, the united kingdom must provide official notice of its decision and negotiate the terms of its exit. this process could take two years or more. the effects of brexit will depend on, among other things, the terms, nature and timetable of the exit and the parties have not yet established these terms, brexit could adversely affect european and global economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial markets. any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, may have a negative effect on the travel industry and may adversely affect our business. we rely on the value of our brands and consumer trust in our brands. if we are not able to protect, maintain and enhance our brands, or if events occur that damage our reputation and brands, our business may be harmed. we believe that the strength of our brands (particularly the tripadvisor brand) has contributed significantly to our success and that maintaining and enhancing our brands is critical to expanding our base of users, to creating content and to attracting advertisers. as a result, we invest significantly in brand marketing. we expect these investments to continue, or even increase, as a result of a variety of factors, including relatively high levels of advertising spending from competitors, the increasing costs of supporting multiple brands, expansion into new geographies, products and product positioning where our brands are less well known, inflation in media pricing, and the continued emergence and relative traffic share growth of search engines as destination sites for travelers. such efforts may not maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective or as efficient as they have been historically. if we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands or to generate demand in a cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. our ability to protect, maintain and enhance our brand also depends largely on our ability to maintain consumer confidence in our products, in the quality and integrity of our content and other information found on our platform. if consumers do not believe our recommended reviews to be useful and reliable, they may seek other services to obtain the information for which they are looking and may not return to our platform as often in the future, or at all. in addition, unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our practices relating to privacy and data protection, product changes, competitive pressures, litigation or regulatory activity, could adversely affect our reputation with our users and our advertisers. such negative publicity also could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement, and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. we operate in an increasingly competitive global environment and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. we compete in rapidly evolving and competitive markets. we face competition for content, users, advertisers, online travel search and price comparison services, or what is known in the industry as hotel metasearch, and online reservations. in the competition to attract users to our platform, we rely on our ability to acquire traffic through offline brand recognition and brand-direct efforts such as online search, email and television. these marketing strategies can be impacted by competitive site content, changes to our website architecture and page designs, changes to search engine ranking algorithms, updates in competitor advertising strategies, or changes to display ordering in search engine results such as preferred placement for internal products offered by search engines. we also compete with different types of companies in the various markets and geographies we participate in, including large and small companies in the travel space as well as broader service providers. more specifically: 13 in our hotel segment, we face competition from otas (including expedia, inc. and the priceline group inc. and certain of their respective subsidiaries), hotel metasearch providers (including trivago, kayak, ctrip.com international, ltd., and hotelscombined), large online search, social media, and marketplace companies (including google, microsoft bing, yahoo, baidu, facebook, alibaba, and amazon), traditional offline travel agencies, and global hotel chains seeking to promote direct bookings. we also face competition from different companies in each of the operating segments in our non-hotel segment. our attractions business competes with traditional travel agencies, wholesalers, and individual tour operators as well as airbnb and similar websites that have added other travel services such as tours and activities. our restaurants business competes with other online restaurant reservation services, such as yelp and opentable (a subsidiary of priceline). our vacation rentals business competes with companies focused on alternative lodging and shared accommodations, including airbnb and homeaway (a subsidiary of expedia). many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources compared to us and have expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating internet traffic as well as large client bases. they also have the ability to leverage other aspects of their business to enable them to compete more effectively against us. in addition, many of our competitors, including online search companies, continue to expand their voice and artificial intelligence capabilities, which may provide them with a competitive advantage in travel. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current, emerging and future competitors or on platforms that may emerge, or provide differentiated products and services to our traveler base. certain of the companies we do business with, including some of our click-based advertising partners, are also our competitors. the consolidation of our competitors and partners, including expedia (through its acquisitions of orbitz, travelocity, and homeaway) and priceline (through its acquisitions of kayak and opentable), may affect our relative competitiveness and our partner relationships. competition and consolidation could result in higher traffic acquisition costs, reduced margins on our advertising services, loss of market share, reduced customer traffic to our websites and reduced advertising by travel companies on our websites. as the industry shifts towards online travel services and the technology supporting it continues to evolve, including platforms such as smartphone and tablet computing devices, competition is likely to intensify. competition in our industry may result in pricing pressure, loss of market share or decreased member engagement, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we rely on information technology to operate our business and remain competitive, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our businesses. we depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems for, among other things, website and mobile apps, supplier connectivity, communications, reservations, payment processing, procurement, customer service and fraud prevention. our future success depends on our ability to continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while at the same time maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. we may not be able to maintain or replace our existing systems or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. we may not be successful, or as successful as our competitors, in developing technologies and systems that operate effectively across multiple devices and platforms in a way that is appealing to our users. in addition, the emergence of alternative platforms such as smartphone and tablet computing devices and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology. new developments in other areas, such as cloud computing, could also make it easier for competition to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. 14 if we do not continue to innovate and provide tools and services that are useful to travelers, we may not remain competitive, and our business and financial performance could suffer. our success depends in part on continued innovation to provide features and services that make our platform compelling to travelers. our competitors are continually developing innovations in online travel-related services and features. as a result, we are continually working to improve our business model and user experience in order to drive user traffic and conversion rates. we can give no assurances that the changes we make will yield the benefits we expect and will not have adverse impacts that we did not anticipate. if we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services and quality features that travelers want to use, existing users may become dissatisfied and use competitors' offerings and we may be unable to attract additional users, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we are dependent upon the quality of traffic in our network to provide value to online advertisers, and any failure in our quality control could have a material adverse effect on the value of our websites to our advertisers and adversely affect our revenue. we use technology and processes to monitor the quality of the internet traffic that we deliver to online advertisers and have identified metrics to demonstrate the quality of that traffic. these metrics are used to not only identify the value of advertising on our website but also to identify low quality clicks such as non-human processes, including robots, spiders or other software; the mechanical automation of clicking; and other types of invalid clicks or click fraud. even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low-quality traffic, or traffic that online advertisers deem to be invalid, will be delivered to such online advertisers. as a result, we may be required to credit amounts owed to us by our advertisers. furthermore, low-quality or invalid traffic may be detrimental to our relationships with advertisers, and could adversely affect our advertising pricing and revenue. we rely on assumptions and estimates and data to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. we believe that certain metrics are key to our business, including unique visitors, hotel shoppers, revenue per hotel shopper, and number of reviews and opinions. as the industry in which we operate and our business continues to evolve, so too might the metrics by which we evaluate our business. while the calculation of these metrics is based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates, our internal tools are not independently verified by a third party and have a number of limitations and, furthermore, our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time. for example, a single person may have multiple accounts or browse the internet on multiple browsers or devices, some users may restrict our ability to accurately identify them across visits, some mobile applications automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no user action, and we are not always able to capture user information on all of our platforms. as such, the calculations of our unique visitors may not accurately reflect the number of people actually visiting our platforms. we continue to improve upon our tools and methodologies to capture data and believe that our current metrics are more accurate; however, the improvement of our tools and methodologies could cause inconsistency between current data and previously reported data, which could confuse investors or lead to questions about the integrity of our data. also if the internal tools we use to track these metrics under-count or over-count performance or contain algorithm or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. in addition, historically, certain metrics were calculated by independent third parties. accordingly readers should not place undue reliance on these numbers. the loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior corporate management and other key employees. in particular, the contributions of stephen kaufer, our co-founder, president and chief executive officer, are critical to our overall management. we cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of these individuals, and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. 15 in addition, competition remains intense for well-qualified employees in certain aspects of our business, including software engineers, developers, product management and development personnel, and other technology professionals. our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. as a global company, we aim to attract quality employees from all over the world, so any restrictions on travel for professional or personal purposes, such as those put in place in the united states in early 2017, may cause significant disruption to our businesses or negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees on a global basis. if we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining or motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. the online vacation rental market is rapidly evolving and if we fail to predict the manner in which the market develops, our business and prospects may suffer. we offer vacation rental services on our tripadvisor-branded sites as well as through our u.s.-based flipkey and vacation home rentals and european-based holiday lettings and niumba businesses. the vacation rental market has been and continues to be, subject to regulatory development that affect the vacation rental industry and the ability of companies like us to list those vacation rentals online. for example, some states and local jurisdictions have adopted or are considering statutes or ordinances that prohibit property owners and managers from renting certain properties for fewer than 30 consecutive days or otherwise limit their ability to do so, and other states and local jurisdictions may introduce similar regulations. some states and local jurisdictions also have fair housing or other laws governing whether and how properties may be rented, which they assert apply to vacation rentals. many homeowners, condominium and neighborhood associations have adopted rules that prohibit or restrict short-term vacation rentals. in addition, many of the fundamental statutes and ordinances that impose taxes or other obligations on travel and lodging companies were established before the growth of the internet and e-commerce, which creates a risk of these laws being used in ways not originally intended that could burden property owners and managers or otherwise harm our business. operating in this dynamic regulatory environment and in new and untested jurisdictions requires significant management attention and financial resources. we cannot assure that our efforts will be successful, and the investment and additional resources required to manage growth will produce the desired levels of revenue or profitability. we may be subject to claims that we violated intellectual property rights of others and these claims can be extremely costly to defend and could require us to pay significant damages and limit our ability to operate. certain companies in the internet and technology industries that own patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of those intellectual property rights in order to extract value from technology companies, such as royalties in connection with grants of licenses. we have received in the past, and expect in the future to receive notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties' intellectual property rights. any intellectual property claim against us, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to settle or litigate and could divert management's attention and other resources. these claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology or content found to be in violation of another party's rights. we might be required or may opt to seek a license for rights to intellectual property held by others, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, or content, which could require significant effort and expense and make us less competitive in the relevant market. any of these results could harm our business and financial performance. acquisitions, investments, significant commercial arrangements and/or new business strategies could disrupt our ongoing business and present new challenges and risks. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and expand user engagement in order to grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and advertiser demands and competitive pressures. as a result, we have acquired, invested in and/or entered into significant commercial arrangements with a number of new business in the past and our future growth may depend, in part, on future acquisitions, investments, commercial arrangements/or changes in business strategies, any of which could be material to our financial 16 conditions and results of operations. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the following: expected and unexpected costs incurred in identifying and pursuing these endeavors, and performing due diligence on potential targets that may or may not be successful; use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding these endeavors that may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, retirement of outstanding indebtedness and/or dividend payments; amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences; diversion of management's attention or other resources from our existing business; difficulties and expenses in integrating the operations, products, technology, privacy protection systems, information systems or personnel of the company, including the assimilation of corporate cultures; difficulties in implementing and retaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; the assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the acquired company, including costs associated with litigation and other claims relating to the acquired company; failure of any company which we have acquired, in which we have invested, or with which we have a commercial arrangement, to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows or to retain key management or employees; failure to generate adequate returns on acquisitions and investments; with respect to minority investments, limited management or operational control and reputational risk, which risk is heightened if the controlling person in such case has business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours; entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience and increased complexity in our business; impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from acquisitions; and adverse market reaction to acquisitions. we have recently invested, and may in the future invest, in privately-held companies and these investments are currently accounted for under the cost method. such investments are inherently risky in that such companies are typically at an early stage of development, may have no or limited revenues, may not be or may never become profitable, may not be able to secure additional funding or their technologies, services or products may not be successfully developed or introduced into the market. further, our ability to liquidate any such investments is typically dependent upon some liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition, since no public market exists for such securities. valuations of such privately-held companies are inherently complex and uncertain due to the lack of liquid market for the company's securities. moreover, we could lose the full amount of any of our investments and any impairment of our investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that these investments will be successful or that such endeavors will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible or that we will achieve these benefits within a reasonable period of time. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand, results of operations and business could be harmed. we have experienced rapid growth in our headcount and operations, including through acquisitions of other businesses and in new international markets. we continue to make substantial investments in our technology and 17 sales and marketing organizations. this growth places substantial demands on management and our operational infrastructure. in addition, as our business matures, we make periodic changes and adjustments to our organization in response to various internal and external considerations, including market opportunities, the competitive landscape, new and enhanced products and acquisitions. these changes may result in a temporary lack of focus or productivity or otherwise impact our business. to manage our growth, we may need to improve our operational, financial and management systems and processes which may require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources. as we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, including employees in international markets, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. if we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and business. we are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. we are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations and other proceedings involving competition, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, free speech issues, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. in addition, our businesses face intellectual property litigation that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell products and services. such claims, suits, government investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, injunctions or damage awards and other factors. determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. these proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or other field action, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our international operations involve additional risks and our exposure to these risks increases as our business continues to expand globally. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states and continue to expand our international operations. many of these regions have different economic conditions, languages, currencies, consumer expectations, levels of consumer acceptance and use of the internet for commerce, legislation, regulatory environments (including labors laws and customs), tax laws and levels of political stability. we are subject to associated risks typical of international businesses, including, but not limited to, the following: local economic or political instability; threatened or actual acts of terrorism; compliance with additional laws applicable to companies operating internationally as well as local laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and u.k. bribery act, data privacy requirements, labor and employment law, laws regarding advertisements and promotions and anti-competition regulations; diminished ability to legally enforce contractual rights; increased risk and limits on enforceability of intellectual property rights; 18 restrictions on, or adverse consequences related to, the withdrawal of non-u.s. investment and earnings; restrictions on repatriation of cash as well as restrictions on investments in operations in certain countries; financial risk arising from transactions in multiple currencies as well as foreign currency exchange restrictions; slower adoption of the internet as an advertising, broadcast and commerce medium in certain of those markets as compared to the united states; difficulties in managing staff and operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences; and uncertainty regarding liability for services, content and intellectual property rights, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of precedent. we have a business operating in china, which creates particular risks and uncertainties relating to the laws in china. the laws and regulations of china restrict foreign investment in areas including air-ticketing and travel agency services, internet content provision, mobile communication and related businesses. although we have established effective control of our chinese business through a series of agreements, future developments in the interpretation or enforcement of chinese laws and regulations or a dispute relating to these agreements could restrict our ability to operate or restructure this business or to engage in strategic transactions. the success of this business, and of any future investments in china, is subject to risks and uncertainties regarding the application, development and interpretation of china's laws and regulations. furthermore, we are also accumulating a greater portion of our cash flows in foreign jurisdictions, which we consider indefinitely reinvested. the repatriation of such funds for use in the united states, including for corporate purposes such as acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or debt refinancings, may result in additional u.s. income tax expense and higher cost for such capital. a failure to comply with current laws, rules and regulations or changes to such laws, rules and regulations and other legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business or financial performance. our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business, including those relating to the internet and online commerce, internet advertising and online commerce, consumer protection, data security and privacy, travel and vacation rental licensing and listing requirements and tax. in some cases, these laws continue to evolve. for example, there is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce that may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, data security, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of products and services. in addition, enforcement authorities in the united states continue to rely on their authority under existing consumer protection laws to take action against companies relating to data privacy and security practices. the growth and development of online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws and more aggressive enforcement efforts, which may impose additional burdens on online businesses generally. further, our vacation rentals business has been and continues to be subject to regulatory developments that affect the vacation rental industry and the ability of competitors like us to list those vacation rentals online. for example, some states and local jurisdictions have adopted or are considering adopting statutes or ordinances that prohibit property owners and managers from renting certain properties for fewer than 30 consecutive days. some states and local jurisdictions also have fair housing or other laws governing whether and how properties may be rented, which they assert apply to vacation rentals. many homeowners, condominium and neighborhood associations have adopted rules that prohibit or restrict short-term vacation rentals. 19 we also have been subject, and we will likely be subject in the future, to inquiries from time to time from regulatory bodies concerning compliance with consumer protection, competition, tax and travel industry-specific laws and regulations. the failure of our businesses to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and/or proceedings against us by governmental agencies and/or consumers, which if material, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, if such laws and regulations are not enforced equally against other competitors in a particular market, our compliance with such laws may put us a competitive disadvantage vis- -vis competitors who do not comply with such requirements. the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations, or the new interpretation of existing laws, rules and regulations, in each case that restrict or otherwise unfavorably impact the ability or manner in which we provide services could require us to change certain aspects of our business, operations and commercial relationships to ensure compliance, which could decrease demand for services, reduce revenues, increase costs and/or subject the company to additional liabilities. unfavorable changes could decrease demand for products and services, limit marketing methods and capabilities, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. violations of these laws and regulations could result in finds and/or criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees and/or prohibitions on the conduct of our business. we cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected from copying or use by others, including potential competitors. our websites rely on content, brands and technology, much of which is proprietary. we protect our proprietary content, brands and technology by relying on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents and confidentiality agreements. any misappropriation or violation of our rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. even with these precautions, it may be possible for another party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, content or brands without authorization or to develop similar technology, content or brands independently. effective intellectual property protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and expenses and the costs of defending our rights. in addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our services are made available, and policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our business or ability to compete. we cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. furthermore, we may need to go to court or other tribunals or administrative bodies in order to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. these proceedings might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. our failure to protect our intellectual property in a cost-effective or effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to protect our technology, content and brands. we currently license from third parties and incorporate the technologies and content into our websites. as we continue to introduce new services that incorporate new technologies and content, we may be required to license additional technology, or content. we cannot be sure that such technology or content will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. our processing, storage and use of personal information and other data exposes us to risks of external and internal security breaches and could give rise to liabilities. we are subject to a variety of laws in the united states and abroad regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other consumer data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. in addition, the security of data when engaging in electronic commerce is essential to maintaining consumer and travel service provider confidences in our services. the regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet have recently come 20 under increased public scrutiny. the u.s. congress and federal agencies, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, are reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection and use of information concerning consumer behavior on the internet. various u.s. courts are also considering the applicability of existing federal and state statutes, including computer trespass and wiretapping laws, to the collection and exchange of information online. in addition, the european union has adopted a new data protection legal framework, effective in may 2018, which may result in a greater compliance burden for companies, including us, with users in europe and increased costs of compliance. potential security breaches to our systems, whether resulting from internal or external sources, could significantly harm our business. a party, whether internal or external, that is able to circumvent our security systems could misappropriate user information or proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. in the past, we have experienced denial-of-service type attacks on our systems that have made portions of our websites unavailable for short periods of time as well as unauthorized access of our systems and data. we also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the internet. much of our business is conducted with third party marketing affiliates or, more recently, through business partners powering our instant booking feature. in addition, we frequently use third parties to process credit card payments. a security breach at such third party could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. in addition, such third parties may not comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to liability. we strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other user data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements that could harm our reputation and cause our customers and members to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, brand, market share and results of operations. we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to investigate and address problems caused by breaches, and reductions in website availability could cause a loss of substantial business volume during the occurrence of any such incident. because the techniques used to sabotage security change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage to reputation, exposure to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability due to regulatory penalties and sanctions. security breaches could also cause travelers and potential users to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. failure to adequately protect against attacks or intrusions, whether for our own systems or systems of vendors, could expose us to security breaches that could have an adverse impact on financial performance. we have acquired a number of companies over the years and may continue to do so in the future. while we make significant efforts to address any information technology security issues with respect to our acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate the acquired businesses. system interruption and the lack of redundancy in some of our internal information systems may harm our business. we rely on computer systems to deliver content and services. we have experienced and may in the future experience system interruptions that make some or all of these systems unavailable or prevent us from efficiently providing content and services to users and third parties. significant interruptions, outages or delays in internal systems, or systems of third parties that we rely upon, or deterioration in the performance of any such systems, would impair our ability to process transactions or display content and decrease the quality of the services we offer to travelers and users. these interruptions could include security intrusions and attacks on our systems for fraud or service interruption (called denial of service or bot attacks). fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of god, computer viruses, electronic intrusion attempts from both external and internal sources and similar events or disruptions may damage or impact or interrupt 21 computer or communications systems or business processes at any time. if we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently and significantly harmed. although we have put measures in place to protect certain portions of our facilities and assets, any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing content and services to users, travelers and/or third parties for a significant period of time. in addition, remediation may be costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such costs. moreover, the costs of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved stability and redundancy may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. we may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. on june 26, 2015, we entered into a new credit agreement with respect to a $1 billion five-year revolving credit facility, or the 2015 credit facility. this agreement includes restrictive covenants that may impact the way we manage our business and may limit our ability to secure significant additional financing in the future on favorable terms. our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. in light of periodic uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, there can be no assurance that sufficient financing will be available on desirable or even any terms to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or extraordinary actions or that counterparties in any such financings would honor their contractual commitments. we have indebtedness which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we currently have outstanding $91 million in long-term debt. risks relating to our indebtedness include: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; making it more difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; possibly placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms that we find acceptable; and exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our outstanding debt is expected to be subject to variable rates of interest. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our 2015 credit facility allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations; however, there is no assurance that additional financing will be available to us on terms favorable to us, if at all. in addition, if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. 22 our 2015 credit facility provides for various provisions that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants and the failure to comply with their covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. we are party to a credit agreement providing for our 2015 credit facility. the agreements that govern the 2015 credit facility contain various covenants, including those that limit our ability to, among other things: incur indebtedness; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; enter into certain asset sale transactions, including partial or full spin-off transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to optimally operate our business. in addition, our 2015 credit facility requires that we meet certain financial tests, including a leverage ratio test. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facility may result in an event of default under the agreements governing such facilities. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the debt incurred thereunder. in addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds (including periodic rollovers of existing borrowings). our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors that could have a material impact on our financial results and could increase the volatility of those results. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. in the event we incur net income in certain jurisdictions but incur losses in other jurisdictions, we generally cannot offset the income from one jurisdiction with the loss from another, which could increase our effective tax rate. furthermore, significant judgment is required to calculate our worldwide provision for income taxes and depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. in the ordinary course of our business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we believe our tax estimates are reasonable. however, we are routinely under audit by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. the taxing authorities of jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences, which would increase our effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. as we operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions, the application of tax laws can also be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by taxing authorities of these jurisdictions. it is not uncommon for taxing authorities of different countries to have conflicting views, for instance, with respect to, among other things, the manner in which the arm's length standard is applied for transfer pricing purposes, or with respect to the valuation of intellectual property. the final determination of audits could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals and could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. additionally, we earn an increasing portion of our income, and accumulate a greater portion of cash flow, in foreign jurisdictions, which we consider indefinitely reinvested. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates and incremental cash tax payments. in addition, there have been proposals to amend u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact the manner in which u.s. companies are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation will pass, if enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our u.s. tax expense and cash flows. 23 changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or the examination of our tax positions, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. however, the tax benefits that we intend to eventually derive could be undermined due to changing tax laws. in particular, the current u.s. administration and key members of congress have made public statements indicating that tax reform is a priority, resulting in uncertainty not only with respect to the future corporate tax rate, but also the u.s. tax consequences of income derived from income related to intellectual property earned overseas in low tax jurisdictions. certain changes to u.s. tax laws, including limitations on the ability to defer u.s. taxation on earnings outside of the united states until those earnings are repatriated to the united states, as well as changes to u.s. tax laws that may be enacted in the future, could affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings. in addition, the taxing authorities in the united states and other jurisdictions where we do business regularly examine our income and other tax returns as well as the tax returns of expedia, our former parent. the ultimate outcome of these examinations (including the irs audit described below) cannot be predicted with certainty. should the irs or other taxing authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations, we may be required to record charges to our operations, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. in connection with the spin-off, we could be subject to significant tax liabilities. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia entered into in connection with the spin-off, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. we continue to be responsible for potential tax liabilities in connection with consolidated income tax returns filed with expedia prior to or in connection with the spin-off. by virtue of previously filed consolidated tax returns with expedia, we are currently under an irs audit for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years. in connection with that audit, we received notices of proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2009 and 2010 tax years in january 2017, which would result in an increase in our worldwide income tax expense. the proposed adjustments would result in an increase to our worldwide income tax expense in an estimated range of $10 million to $14 million after consideration of competent authority relief, exclusive of interest and penalties. we are also subject to various ongoing state income tax audits. the outcome of these matters or any other audits could subject us to significant tax liabilities. we are subject to fluctuation in foreign currency exchange risk. we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the united states but report our results in u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly those related to the euro, british pound sterling, and australian dollar. these exposures include, but are not limited to re-measurement of gains and losses from changes in the value of foreign denominated assets and liabilities; translation gains and losses on foreign subsidiary financial results that are translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation; and planning risk related to changes in exchange rates between the time we prepare our annual and quarterly forecasts and when actual results occur. depending on the size of the exposures and the relative movements of exchange rates, if we were to choose not to hedge or were to fail to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial statements and financial condition. as seen in some recent periods, in the event of severe volatility in 24 exchange rates the impact of these exposures can increase, and the impact on results of operations can be more pronounced. in addition, the current environment and the increasingly global nature of our business have made hedging these exposures both more complex. we hedge certain short-term foreign currency exposures with the purchase of forward exchange contracts. these forward exchange contracts only help mitigate the impact of changes in foreign currency rates that occur during the term of the related contract period and carry risks of counter-party failure. there can be no assurance that our forward exchange contracts will have their intended effects. significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can affect consumer travel behavior. volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and its impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. currently is a controlling stockholder. liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip, effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of our stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of our common stock of 25% of the members of our board of directors and matters as to which delaware law requires separate class votes), including but not limited to, corporate transactions such as mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets, the authorization or issuance of new equity or debt securities and determinations with respect to our business direction and policies. our chairman greg maffei and director albert rosenthaler also serve as officers and directors of ltrip. ltrip, which has investments in other companies, may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders and they may vote in a way with which our other stockholders may not agree or that may be adverse to other stockholders' interests. ltrip is not restricted from investing in other businesses involving or related to our business. liberty's control of us, as well as the existing provisions of our organizational documents and delaware law, may discourage or prevent a change of control that might otherwise be beneficial, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. we are currently relying on the controlled company exemption under nasdaq stock market listing rules, pursuant to which controlled companies are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements otherwise applicable under nasdaq listing rules. the nasdaq stock market listing rules exempt controlled companies, or companies of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company, from certain corporate governance requirements, including those requirements that: a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we currently rely on the controlled company exemption for certain of the above requirements. accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other nasdaq-listed companies with respect to corporate governance for so long as we rely on these exemptions from the corporate governance requirements. if we are unable to successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and our stock price and business may be adversely impacted. as a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. additionally, we are required to disclose in our annual reports on form 10-k our management's 25 assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a registered public accounting firm's attestation report on this assessment. if we are not successful in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, there could be inaccuracies or omissions in the consolidated financial information we are required to file with the sec. additionally, even if there are no inaccuracies or omissions, we could be required to publicly disclose the conclusion of our management that our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. these events could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, adversely impact our stock price, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits that could be costly to resolve and distract management's attention, limit our ability to access the capital markets or cause our stock to be delisted from nasdaq or any other securities exchange on which we are then listed. the market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may face negative pressure. our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility. the market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this section and other factors beyond our control. factors affecting the trading price of our common stock could include: quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; failure to meet market expectations; the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program which could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock; developments in our industry, including changes in governmental regulations; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors related to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price. for the period ended december 31, 2016, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on nasdaq was approximately 2.2 million shares. if our existing stockholders or their distributees sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of the common stock could decrease significantly. the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the trading price of our common stock. in addition, certain stockholders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. if ltrip or some other stockholder sells substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if there is a perception in the public market that ltrip might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. a decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. 26 anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. these provisions include: authorization and issuance of class b common stock that entitles holders to ten votes per share; authorization of the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; prohibiting our stockholders from filling board vacancies or calling special stockholder meetings; and limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders. we are subject to the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. these and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. our exposure to market risk includes our revolving credit facilities, derivative instruments and cash and cash equivalents, short term and long term marketable securities, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables, accounts payable and deferred merchant payables denominated in foreign currencies. we manage our exposure to these risks through established policies and procedures and by assessing the anticipated near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow and market exposures from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. interest rates our current exposure to changes in interest rates relate primarily to our investment portfolio and the outstanding debt on our 2015 and 2016 credit facilities. our interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in u.s. interest rates and libor. changes in interest rates affect the interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value of those securities, as well as the amount of interest we pay on our outstanding debt. we currently invest our excess cash in cash deposits at major global banks, money market mutual funds and marketable securities. our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of our current investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. based on our investment positions as of december 31, 2016, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an approximate $1 million decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. as of december 31, 2016, we had $164 million of debt under our 2015 credit facility and 2016 credit facility, which both have a variable rate. the variable interest rate on the 2015 credit facility is based on current assumptions, leverage and libor rates. the variable interest rate on the 2016 credit facility bears interest at libor plus 112.5 basis points. based on our current outstanding debt balance as of december 31, 2016, a 25 basis point change in our interest rates on our 2015 credit facility and 2016 credit facility would result in an increase or decrease to interest expense that would be less than $1 million per annum. we currently do not hedge our interest rate risk; however, we are continually evaluating the interest rate market, and if we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. we did not experience any material financial impact from changes in interest rates for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 or 2014. 66 foreign currency exchange rates we conduct business in certain international markets, primarily the european union, the united kingdom, singapore and australia. because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign currency exchange rates. some of our foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their respective local currencies other than the u.s. dollar. consequently, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact the translation of foreign financial statements into u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency, or functional currency, into u.s. dollars upon consolidation. if the u.s. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income. similarly, our net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income will decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against local currency. the effect of foreign currency exchange on our business historically has varied from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so, potentially materially. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our overall financials, we performed a sensitivity analysis. a hypothetical 10% decrease of the foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, or strengthening of the u.s. dollar, would generate an unrealized loss of approximately $22 million related to a decrease in our net assets held in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar as of december 31, 2016, which would initially be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses. we recognize these transactional gains and losses (primarily euro currency transactions) in our consolidated statements of operations and have recorded foreign currency exchange losses of $6 million, $6 million and $11 million for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. future net transactional gains and losses are inherently difficult to predict as they are reliant on how the multiple currencies in which we transact fluctuate in relation to the u.s. dollar and other functional currencies, and the relative composition and denomination of current assets and liabilities each period. we currently manage our exposure to foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures. to the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies, as well as, using derivative financial instruments. we use foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage certain short-term foreign currency risk to try and reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. our objective is to hedge only those foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified and that may result in significant impacts to our cash or the consolidated statement of operations. our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures. we account for our outstanding derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. our current foreign currency forward exchange contracts principally address foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, we had outstanding forward currency contracts not designated as hedging contracts with a notional value of $6 million and $25 million, respectively. these contracts had maturities of less than 90 days. the fair value of these derivatives at both december 31, 2016 and 2015, were not material. for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, gains related to our derivatives contracts were recorded to interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations of $2 million, $2 million and $1 million, respectively. a hypothetical 10% change of the foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant, would result in an approximate change of less than $1 million in the fair value of our outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts at december 31, 2016, and a resulting equivalent gain or loss on our consolidated statement of operations. refer to 67 note 6 financial instruments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for further detail on our derivative instruments. as we increase our operations in international markets, our exposure to potentially volatile movements in foreign currency exchange rates increases. the economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. these changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our foreign currency risk strategies. 68 ite m 8. financial statements and supplementary data index to financial statements and supplementary data: report of independent registered public accounting firm 70 consolidated statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 71 consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 72 consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 73 consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 74 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 75 notes to consolidated financial statements 76 69 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders tripadvisor, inc.: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended december 31, 2016. these consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended december 31, 2016, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), tripadvisor, inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso), and our report dated february 17, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. /s/ kpmg llp boston, massachusetts february 17, 2017 70 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of operations (in millions, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 revenue $ 1,480 $ 1,492 $ 1,246 costs and expenses: cost of revenue (1) 71 58 40 selling and marketing (2) 756 692 502 technology and content (2) 243 207 171 general and administrative (2) (note 17) 143 210 128 depreciation 69 57 47 amortization of intangible assets 32 36 18 total costs and expenses 1,314 1,260 906 operating income 166 232 340 other income (expense): interest expense (12 ) (10 ) (9 ) interest income and other, net (note 18) (3 ) 17 (9 ) total other income (expense), net (15 ) 7 (18 ) income before income taxes 151 239 322 provision for income taxes (31 ) (41 ) (96 ) net income $ 120 $ 198 $ 226 earnings per share attributable to common stockholders (note 5): basic $ 0.83 $ 1.38 $ 1.58 diluted $ 0.82 $ 1.36 $ 1.55 weighted average common shares outstanding (note 5): basic 145 144 143 diluted 147 146 146 (1) excludes amortization expense as follows: amortization of acquired technology included in amortization of intangible assets $ 7 $ 9 $ 4 amortization of website development costs included in depreciation 46 37 30 $ 53 $ 46 $ 34 (2) includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: selling and marketing $ 20 $ 16 $ 13 technology and content $ 40 $ 28 $ 27 general and administrative $ 25 $ 28 $ 23 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 71 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions) year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 net income $ 120 $ 198 $ 226 other comprehensive income (loss): foreign currency translation adjustments (1) (14 ) (33 ) (31 ) reclassification adjustment on sale of business included in total other income (expense), net (note 3) 1 total other comprehensive loss (14 ) (32 ) (31 ) comprehensive income $ 106 $ 166 $ 195 (1) foreign currency translation adjustments exclude income taxes due to our practice and intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in those operations. see note 15 stockholders' equity . the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 72 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated balance sheets (in millions, except share and per share data) december 31, december 31, 2016 2015 assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents (note 6) $ 612 $ 614 short-term marketable securities (note 6) 118 47 accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $9 and $6, respectively (note 2) 189 180 prepaid expenses and other current assets 31 24 total current assets 950 865 long-term marketable securities (note 6) 16 37 property and equipment, net (note 7) 260 247 intangible assets, net (note 8) 167 176 goodwill (note 8) 736 732 deferred income taxes, net (note 10) 42 25 other long-term assets 67 46 total assets $ 2,238 $ 2,128 liabilities and stockholders' equity current liabilities: accounts payable $ 14 $ 10 deferred merchant payables (note 2) 128 105 deferred revenue 64 64 current portion of debt (note 9) 80 1 taxes payable (note 10) 10 9 accrued expenses and other current liabilities (note 11) 127 123 total current liabilities 423 312 long-term debt (note 9) 91 200 deferred income taxes, net (note 10) 12 15 other long-term liabilities (note 12) 210 189 total liabilities 736 716 commitments and contingencies (note 13) stockholders' equity: (note 15) preferred stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 100,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 0 and 0 common stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 1,600,000,000 shares issued: 134,706,467 and 133,836,242 shares outstanding: 131,310,980 and 132,443,111 class b common stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 400,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 12,799,999 and 12,799,999 additional paid-in capital 831 741 retained earnings 945 826 accumulated other comprehensive loss (77 ) (63 ) treasury stock-common stock, at cost, 3,395,487 and 1,393,131 shares (197 ) (92 ) total stockholders' equity 1,502 1,412 total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 2,238 $ 2,128 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 73 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity (in millions, except share data) accumulated additional other class b paid-in retained comprehensive common stock common stock capital earnings loss treasury stock total shares amount shares amount shares amount balance as of december 31, 2013 131,537,798 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 608 $ 402 $ (2,120,709 ) $ (145 ) $ 865 net income 226 226 other comprehensive loss (31 ) (31 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 777,667 3 3 tax benefits on equity awards, net 20 20 withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (33 ) (33 ) fair value of stock options assumed in connection with acquisition (note 3) 5 5 stock-based compensation 70 70 other (73,464 ) balance as of december 31, 2014 132,315,465 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 673 $ 628 $ (31 ) (2,194,173 ) $ (145 ) $ 1,125 net income 198 198 other comprehensive loss (32 ) (32 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 1,520,777 12 12 issuance of treasury stock as charitable contribution (note 15) 14 801,042 53 67 tax benefits on equity awards, net 35 35 withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (73 ) (73 ) stock-based compensation 80 80 balance as of december 31, 2015 133,836,242 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 741 $ 826 $ (63 ) (1,393,131 ) $ (92 ) $ 1,412 net income 120 120 cumulative effect adjustment from adoption of asu 2016-09 (note 2) (1 ) (1 ) other comprehensive loss (14 ) (14 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 870,225 7 7 repurchase of common stock (2,002,356 ) (105 ) (105 ) withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (15 ) (15 ) stock-based compensation 98 98 balance as of december 31, 2016 134,706,467 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 831 $ 945 $ (77 ) (3,395,487 ) $ (197 ) $ 1,502 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 74 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions) year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 operating activities: net income $ 120 $ 198 $ 226 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development 69 57 47 amortization of intangible assets 32 36 18 stock-based compensation expense (note 4) 85 72 63 non-cash contribution to charitable foundation (note 17) 67 gain on sale of business (note 3) (20 ) deferred tax benefit (20 ) (37 ) (17 ) other, net 10 9 18 changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions and other investments, and dispositions: accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets (24 ) (31 ) (26 ) accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities 7 13 18 deferred merchant payables 21 15 (9 ) income tax receivables/payables, net 20 32 60 deferred revenue 1 7 9 net cash provided by operating activities 321 418 407 investing activities: capital expenditures, including internal-use software and website development (72 ) (109 ) (81 ) acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired (note 3) (43 ) (29 ) (331 ) proceeds from sale of business, net of cash sold (note 3) 25 purchases of marketable securities (166 ) (205 ) (251 ) sales of marketable securities 84 187 336 maturities of marketable securities 32 71 93 other investing activities, net 2 2 1 net cash used in investing activities (163 ) (58 ) (233 ) financing activities: repurchase of common stock (note 15) (105 ) proceeds from chinese credit facilities 7 4 13 payments to chinese credit facilities (1 ) (41 ) (3 ) principal payments on 2011 credit facility (300 ) (40 ) proceeds from 2015 credit facility, net of financing costs 101 287 payments to 2015 credit facility (210 ) (90 ) proceeds from 2016 credit facility, net of financing costs 73 proceeds from exercise of stock options 7 12 3 payment of withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (15 ) (73 ) (33 ) other financing activities, net 12 (1 ) net cash used in financing activities (143 ) (189 ) (61 ) effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (17 ) (12 ) (9 ) net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (2 ) 159 104 cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 614 455 351 cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 612 $ 614 $ 455 supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: cash paid during the period for income taxes, net of refunds $ 29 $ 43 $ 54 cash paid during the period for interest $ 10 $ 7 $ 7 supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities: stock-based compensation capitalized with internal-use software and website development costs $ 12 $ 8 $ 8 capitalization of construction in-process related to build to suit lease $ $ 6 $ 52 capital expenditures incurred but not yet paid related to build to suit lease $ $ $ 10 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 75 tripadvisor, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements note 1: organization and business description we refer to tripadvisor, inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiaries as tripadvisor, the company, us, we and our in these notes to the consolidated financial statements. on december 20, 2011 expedia, inc. completed a spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly traded delaware corporation. we refer to this transaction as the spin-off. tripadvisor's common stock began trading on the nasdaq as an independent public company on december 21, 2011 under the trading symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of 4,799,848 shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates (the stock purchase ). as a result, liberty beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip. simultaneously, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. we refer to this transaction as the liberty spin off. as a result of the liberty spin-off, effective august 27, 2014, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor. as a result of these transactions, as of december 31, 2016, ltrip beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock, which shares constitute 13.8% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 21.5% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock is generally entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing approximately 56.4% of our voting power. description of business tripadvisor is an online travel company, empowering users to plan and book the perfect trip. tripadvisor's travel platform aggregates reviews and opinions of members about destinations, accommodations, activities and attractions, and restaurants throughout the world so that our users have access to trusted advice wherever their trips take them. our platform helps users plan their trips with our unique user-generated content and enables users to compare real-time pricing and availability so that they can book hotels, flights, cruises, vacation rentals, activities and attractions, and restaurant reservations. our flagship brand is tripadvisor. tripadvisor-branded websites include tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the website in 48 markets worldwide. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we manage and operate 23 other media brands, connected by the common goal of providing comprehensive travel planning resources across the travel sector, which include; www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.citymaps.com , www.cruisecritic.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.gateguru.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.housetrip.com , www.independenttraveler.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl, www.besttables.com, www.dimmi.com.au , and www.en.couverts.nl), www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.smartertravel.com, www.tingo.com, www.travelpod.com, www.tripbod.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and www.viator.com. seasonality traveler expenditures in the global travel market tend to follow a seasonal pattern. as such, expenditures by travel advertisers to market to potential travelers, and, therefore, our financial performance, tend to be seasonal as 76 well. as a result, our financial results tend to be seasonally highest in the third quarter of a year, as it is a key period for travel research and trip-taking, compared to the first and fourth quarters which represent seasonal low points. further significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends . note 2: significant accounting policies basis of presentation and consolidation the accompanying consolidated financial statements include tripadvisor, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and entities we control, or in which we have a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary of expected cash profits or losses. all inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( gaap ). we believe that the assumptions underlying our consolidated financial statements are reasonable. however, these consolidated financial statements do not present our future financial position, the results of our future operations and cash flows. we have an operating subsidiary in china that has variable interests in an affiliated entity in china in order to comply with chinese laws and regulations, which restrict foreign investment in internet content provision businesses. although we do not own the capital stock of this chinese affiliate, we consolidate its results as we are the primary beneficiary of the cash losses or profits of this variable interest affiliate and have the power to direct the activities of this affiliate. our variable interest entity is not material for all periods presented. accounting estimates we use estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with gaap. our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of our consolidated financial statements. these estimates and assumptions also affect the reported amount of net income or loss during any period. our actual financial results could differ significantly from these estimates. the significant estimates underlying our consolidated financial statements include: (i) recognition and recoverability of goodwill, intangible and other long-lived assets; (ii) accounting for income taxes; (iii) purchase accounting for business combinations; and (iv) stock-based compensation. reclassifications refer to our discussion in recently adopted accounting pronouncements below for required prior period reclassifications resulting from the early adoption of new accounting guidance. all other reclassifications, made to conform the prior period to the current presentation, were not material and had no net effect on our consolidated financial statements. revenue recognition we recognize revenue from our services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. deferred revenue, which primarily relates to our subscription-based and commission based arrangements, is recorded when payments are received in advance of our performance as required by the underlying agreements. click-based advertising and transaction revenue . click-based revenue is derived primarily from click-through fees charged to our travel partners for traveler leads sent to the travel partners' website. we record revenue from click-through fees in the same period as when the traveler makes the click-through to the travel partners' website. our instant booking transaction model revenue is comprised of commissions earned on all valid instant booking reservations. in a transaction model, our instant booking commission revenue is recorded at the time a traveler books a hotel transaction on our partner's site where we, as facilitator for such booking, do not assume associated cancellation risk. under the other instant booking model, called the consumption model, we assume cancellation risk 77 associated with booking, and we record that revenue in the month in which the traveler's stay at a hotel occurs. we have no post-booking service obligations for all instant booking transactions, regardless of the model chosen. display-based and subscription-based advertising . we recognize display-based advertising revenue ratably over the advertising period or upon delivery of advertising impressions, depending on the terms of the advertising contract. subscription-based advertising revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual period over which service is delivered. attractions . we work with local operators, or merchant partners, to provide travelers with access to tours and activities in popular destinations worldwide, earning a commission for such service. while the merchant of record, we receive cash from the consumer at the time of booking of the destination activity and record these amounts, net of commissions, as deferred merchant payables on our consolidated balance sheet. commission revenue is recorded as deferred revenue at the time of booking and later recognized when the consumer has completed the destination activity. we pay the destination activity operators after the travelers' use. in transactions where we are not the merchant of record, we invoice and receive commissions directly from our merchant partners and record commission revenue when the consumer has completed the destination activity. restaurants. we recognize reservation revenues (or per seated diner fees) on a transaction-by-transaction basis as diners are seated by our restaurant customers. subscription-based revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual period over which the service is delivered. vacation rentals. we generate revenue from customers for online advertising services related to the listing of their properties for rent primarily on either a subscription basis over a fixed-term, or on a commission basis for transactions that are booked on our platform. payments for term-based subscriptions received in advance of services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized ratably to revenue on a straight-line basis over the listing period. our commission revenue is primarily generated on our free-to-list option, in lieu of a pre-paid subscription fee. when a commissionable transaction is booked on our platform, we receive cash from the traveler that includes both our commission, which is recorded as deferred revenue, and the amount due to the property owner, which is recorded to deferred merchant payables on our consolidated balance sheet. we pay the amount due to the property owner and recognize our commission revenue at the time of the traveler's stay. additional revenues are also derived on a pay-per-lead basis, as we provide leads for rental properties to property managers. pay-per-lead revenue is billed and recognized in the period when the leads are delivered to the property managers. cost of revenue cost of revenue consists of expenses that are directly related or closely correlated to revenue generation, including direct costs, such as ad serving fees, flight search fees, credit card fees and other transaction costs, and data center costs. in addition, cost of revenue includes personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses for certain customer support personnel who are directly involved in revenue generation. selling and marketing selling and marketing expenses primarily consist of direct costs, including traffic generation costs from sem and other online traffic acquisition costs, syndication costs and affiliate program commissions, social media costs, brand advertising, television and other offline advertising, and public relations. in addition, our indirect sales and marketing expense consists of personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses for sales, sales support, customer support and marketing employees. technology and content technology and content expenses consist primarily of personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries and benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses for salaried employees and contractors engaged in the design, development, testing, content support, and maintenance of our websites and mobile apps. other costs include licensing, maintenance expense, computer supplies, telecom costs, content translation costs, and consulting costs. 78 general and administrative general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead costs, including personnel engaged in executive leadership, finance, legal, and human resources, including stock-based compensation. general and administrative costs also include professional service fees and other fees including audit, legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including bad debt expense, non-income taxes and charitable contributions. cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities our marketable debt and equity securities have been classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. we determine the appropriate classification of our investments at the time of purchase and reevaluate the designations at each balance sheet date. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss and providing liquidity of investments sufficient to meet our operating and capital spending requirements and debt repayments. our cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase. in addition, we reevaluate at each reporting period the classification of our money market fund investments as cash equivalents, including the enactment of liquidity fees or redemption gates, if any, which may result in such money market fund investments being reclassified to short-term marketable securities. we classify our marketable debt securities as either short-term or long-term based on each instrument's underlying contractual maturity date and as to whether and when we intend to sell a particular security prior to its maturity date. marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 90 days at the date of purchase and 12 months or less remaining at the balance sheet date will be classified as short-term and marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date will generally be classified as long-term. we classify our marketable equity securities, limited to money market funds and mutual funds, as either short-term or long-term based on the nature of each security and its availability for use in current operations. our marketable debt and equity securities are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a component of stockholders' equity. fair values are determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of each security's cost basis. we may sell certain of our marketable securities prior to their stated maturities for strategic reasons including, but not limited to, anticipation of credit deterioration, liquidity, and duration management. the weighted average maturity of our total invested cash shall not exceed 18 months, and no security shall have a final maturity date greater than three years, according to our investment policy. we continually review our available for sale securities to determine whether a decline in fair value below the carrying value is other than temporary. when evaluating an investment for other-than-temporary impairment, we review factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below its cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and our intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell the investment before recovery of the investment's cost basis. once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. if we do not intend to sell the debt security, but it is probable that we will not collect all amounts due, then only the impairment due to the credit risk would be recognized in earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment would be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. cash consists of cash deposits held in global financial institutions. other investments we record investments using the equity method generally when we have the ability to exercise significant influence over the investee. equity investments without readily determinable fair values for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified within long-term investments and other assets. under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are 79 adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, we had $14 million and $0 million of cost method investments, respectively, recorded in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheets. fair value measurements we apply fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. we measure assets and liabilities at fair value based on the expected exit price, which is the amount that would be received on the sale of an asset or amount paid to transfer a liability, as the case may be, in an orderly transaction between market participants in the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact. as such, fair value may be based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement date. the authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value on either a recurring or nonrecurring basis whereby inputs, used in valuation techniques, are assigned a hierarchical level. the following are the hierarchical levels of inputs to measure fair value: level 1 valuations are based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. level 2 valuations are based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. level 3 valuations are based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. these valuations require significant judgment. derivative financial instruments our goal in managing our foreign currency exchange risk is to reduce, to the extent practicable, our potential exposure to the changes that exchange rates might have on our earnings, cash flows and financial position. we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. we account for our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. in certain circumstances, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts ( forward contracts ) to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. our derivative instruments or forward contracts entered into which are not designated as hedges as of december 31, 2016 are disclosed below in note 6 financial instruments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting must be adjusted to fair value through current income. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of a given subsidiary are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. accordingly, fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward differences. these differences are not expected to be significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which to date, have had maturities at inception of 90 days or less. the net cash received or paid related to our derivative instruments are classified in other investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flow. we have not entered into any cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges as of december 31, 2016. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts accounts receivable are generally due within 30 days and are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. we record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount. collateral is not required for accounts receivable. we consider accounts outstanding longer than the contractual payment terms as past due. we determine our allowance by considering a number of factors, including the length of time trade accounts receivable are past due, 80 previous loss history, a specific customer's ability to pay its obligations to us, and the condition of the general economy and industry as a whole. the following table presents the changes in our allowance for doubtful accounts for the periods presented: december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) allowance for doubtful accounts: balance, beginning of period $ 6 $ 7 $ 3 charges (recoveries) to earnings 4 3 3 write-offs, net of recoveries and other adjustments (1 ) (4 ) 1 balance, end of period $ 9 $ 6 $ 7 property and equipment, including website and software development costs we record property and equipment at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. we capitalize certain costs incurred during the application development stage related to the development of websites and internal use software when it is probable the project will be completed and the software will be used as intended. capitalized costs include internal and external costs, if direct and incremental, and deemed by management to be significant. we expense costs related to the planning and post-implementation phases of software and website development as these costs are incurred. maintenance and enhancement costs (including those costs in the post-implementation stages) are typically expensed as incurred, unless such costs relate to substantial upgrades and enhancements to the website or software resulting in added functionality, in which case the costs are capitalized. we compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which is three to five years for computer equipment, capitalized software and website development, office furniture and other equipment. we depreciate leasehold improvements using the straight-line method, over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the improvement or the remaining term of the lease. leases we lease office space in many countries around the world under non-cancelable lease agreements. we generally lease our office facilities under operating lease agreements. office facilities subject to an operating lease and the related lease payments are not recorded on our balance sheet. the terms of certain lease agreements provide for rental payments on a graduated basis, however, we recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease period in accordance with gaap. any lease incentives are recognized as reductions of rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. the lease term begins on the date we become legally obligated for the rent payments or when we take possession of the office space, whichever is earlier. we establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under lease arrangements where we are considered the owner for accounting purposes only, or build-to-suit leases, to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance under gaap. if we continue to be the deemed owner, for accounting purposes, the facilities are accounted for as financing obligations. we establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to return certain of our leased facilities to their original condition for asset retirement obligations. such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated restoration costs and are included in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. our asset retirement obligations were not material as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015, respectively. 81 business combination we account for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting which requires that the tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired and assumed liabilities be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. any excess purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. when determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from customer and supplier relationships, acquired technology and trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. in september 2015, the fasb issued new accounting guidance for measurement-period adjustments in a business combination. under the new guidance, an acquirer must recognize adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined and eliminates the requirement to account for measurement-period adjustments retrospectively. the effect on earnings as a result of the change to the provisional amounts, calculated as if the accounting had been completed as of the acquisition date, must be recorded in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined rather than retrospectively. the guidance was effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2015, including interim periods within those fiscal years with early adoption permitted for financial statements that have not been issued. the company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2016 and had no material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets goodwill we assess goodwill, which is not amortized, for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. goodwill is assigned to reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination as of the acquisition date. we evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. once goodwill has been allocated to the reporting units, it no longer retains its identification with a particular acquisition and becomes identified with the reporting unit in its entirety. accordingly, the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is available to support the recoverability of its goodwill. in the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we generally first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50%) that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. however, the company has the option to qualitatively assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. periodically, we may choose to forgo the initial qualitative assessment and proceed directly to a quantitative analysis to assist in our annual evaluation. when assessing goodwill for impairment, our decision to perform a qualitative impairment assessment for an individual reporting unit in a given year is influenced by a number of factors, such as the size of the reporting unit's goodwill, the significance of the excess of the reporting unit's estimated fair value over carrying value at the last quantitative assessment date, and the amount of time in between quantitative fair value assessments and the date of acquisition to establish an updated baseline quantitative analysis. during a qualitative assessment, if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, we then perform a quantitative assessment and compare the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value. if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the goodwill of that reporting unit is potentially impaired and we proceed to step two of the impairment analysis. in step two of the analysis, we will record an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill over its implied fair value should such a circumstance arise. 82 in determining the estimated fair values of reporting units in a quantitative goodwill impairment test, we generally use a blend, of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (discounted cash flows model) and the market valuation approach, which we believe compensates for the inherent risks of using either model on a stand-alone basis. the discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of the reporting unit; income tax rates and working capital effects. the market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business and other precedent transactions. our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and/or income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. we believe that the estimated fair values assigned to our reporting units in impairment tests are based on reasonable assumptions that marketplace participants would use. however, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. the use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments could trigger the need for an impairment charge, or materially increase or decrease the amount of any such impairment charge . indefinite-lived intangible assets intangible assets that have indefinite lives are not amortized and are tested for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. similar to the qualitative assessment for goodwill, we may assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, we compare the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived asset with its carrying amount. if the carrying value of an individual indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its implied fair value, the individual asset is written down by an amount equal to such excess. the assessment of qualitative factors is optional and at our discretion. we may bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. we base our measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, which consist of trademarks and tradenames as of december 31, 2016, using the relief-from-royalty method. this method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. this method requires us to estimate future revenues, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital, however, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. the use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments could trigger the need for an impairment charge, or materially increase or decrease the amount of any such impairment charge. recoverability of intangible assets with definite lives and other long-lived assets intangible assets with definite lives and other long-lived assets are carried at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of one to twelve years. the straight-line method of amortization is currently used for our definite-lived intangible assets as, to date, it approximates, or is our best estimate, of the distribution of the economic use of our identifiable intangible assets. we review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups, including property and equipment, to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. if such facts indicate a potential impairment, we assess the recoverability of the asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset of the group. if the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair 83 value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. any impairment would be measured by the amount that the carrying values, of such asset groups, exceed their fair value and would be included in operating income on the consolidated statement of operations. we have not identified any circumstances that would warrant an impairment charge for any recorded definite lived or other long term assets, including our cost method investments, on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2016. income taxes we record income taxes under the asset and liability method. deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. we determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. we consider all relevant factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as assessing available tax planning strategies. we may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. we record liabilities to address uncertain tax positions we have taken in previously filed tax returns or that we expect to take in a future tax return. the determination for required liabilities is based upon an analysis of each individual tax position, taking into consideration whether it is more likely than not that our tax position, based on technical merits, will be sustained upon examination. foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses our consolidated financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars. certain of our subsidiaries outside of the united states use the related local currency as their functional currency and not the u.s. dollar. therefore assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate in effect at the applicable reporting date, and the consolidated statements of operations are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the applicable period. the resulting unrealized cumulative translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet. we also have subsidiaries that have transactions in foreign currencies other than their functional currency. transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise. subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transaction gains and losses which are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations as unrealized (based on the applicable period-end exchange rate) or realized upon settlement of the transactions. accordingly, we have recorded foreign currency exchange losses of $4 million, $4 million and $10 million for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statement of operations. these amounts also include gains and losses, realized and unrealized, on foreign currency forward contracts. advertising expense we incur advertising expense, which includes traffic generation costs from search engines, affiliate program commissions, display advertising, and other online, and offline (including television) advertising expense, promotions and public relations to promote our business. we expense the costs associated with communicating the advertisements in the period in which the advertisement takes place. we initially capitalize and then expense the production costs associated with television advertisements in the period in which the advertisement first takes place. 84 for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recorded advertising expense of $543 million, $507 million, and $341 million, respectively, in selling and marketing expense on our consolidated statements of operations. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, we had $5 million and $2 million, respectively, of prepaid marketing expenses included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheets. we expect to fully expense our prepaid marketing asset of $5 million as of december 31, 2016 to the consolidated statement of operations during 2017. stock-based compensation stock options. the exercise price for all stock options granted by us to date has been equal to the market price of the underlying shares of common stock at the date of grant. in this regard, when making stock option awards, our practice is to determine the applicable grant date and to specify that the exercise price shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. the estimated grant-date fair value of stock options is calculated using a black-scholes merton option-pricing model ( black-scholes model ). the black-scholes model incorporates assumptions to fair value stock-based awards, which includes the risk-free rate of return, expected volatility, expected term and expected dividend yield. our risk-free interest rate is based on the rates currently available on zero-coupon u.s. treasury issues, in effect at the time of the grant, whose remaining maturity period most closely approximates the stock option's expected term assumption. our expected volatility is calculated by equally weighting the historical volatility and implied volatility on our own common stock. historical volatility is determined using actual daily price observations of our common stock price over a period equivalent to or approximate to the expected term of our stock option grants to date. implied volatility represents the volatility calculated from the observed prices of our actively traded options on our common stock, with remaining maturities in excess of six months and market prices approximate to the exercise prices of the stock option grant. we have estimated our expected term using historical exercise behavior and expected post-vest termination data for all 2016 and 2015 stock option grants. we estimated our expected term for all 2014 stock option grants using the simplified method, as we did not have sufficient historical exercise data on our common stock at that date from spin-off. our expected dividend yield is zero, as we have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date and do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable. our stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and generally vest equally over a four-year requisite service period. we amortize the grant-date fair value of our stock option grants as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. restricted stock units. rsus are stock awards that are granted to employees entitling the holder to shares of our common stock as the award vests. rsus are measured at fair value based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock at the date of grant. we amortize the fair value of rsus as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term of generally four years on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. performance-based stock options and rsus vest upon achievement of certain company-based performance conditions and a requisite service period. on the date of grant, the fair value of a performance-based award is calculated using the same method as our service based stock options and rsus described above. we then assess whether it is probable that the individual performance targets would be achieved. if assessed as probable, compensation expense will be recorded for these awards over the estimated performance period. at each reporting period, we will reassess the probability of achieving the performance targets and the performance period required to meet those targets. the estimation of whether the performance targets will be achieved and of the performance period required to achieve the targets requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, the cumulative effect on current and prior periods of those changes will be recorded in the period estimates are revised, or the change in estimate will be applied prospectively depending on whether the change affects the estimate of total compensation cost to be recognized or merely affects the period over which compensation cost is to be recognized. the ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation expense recognized will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. 85 estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive these awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of our original estimates of fair value. in the third quarter of 2016 we adopted new accounting guidance from the fasb on stock compensation, or asu 2016-09, as described in recently adopted accounting pronouncements below and have elected to account for forfeitures as they occur, rather than continue to estimate expected forfeitures. treasury stock shares of our common stock repurchased are recorded at cost as treasury stock and result in the reduction of stockholders' equity in our consolidated balance sheet. we may reissue these treasury shares. when treasury shares are reissued, we use the average cost method for determining the cost of reissued shares. if the issuance price is higher than the cost, the excess of the issuance price over the cost is credited to additional paid-in-capital. if the issuance price is lower than the cost, the difference is first charged against any credit balance in additional paid-in-capital from the previous issuances of treasury stock and the remaining balance is charged to retained earnings. deferred merchant payables we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking related to our vacation rental, attractions and transaction-based businesses and we record these amounts, net of commissions, on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant payables. we pay the hotel, attraction provider or vacation rental owner after the travelers' use and subsequent billing from the hotel, attraction provider or vacation rental owner. therefore, we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying the hotel, attraction provider or vacation rental owner, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source or use of cash to us. as long as these businesses grow, we expect that changes in working capital related to these transactions, depending on timing of payments and seasonality, will continue to impact operating cash flows. our deferred merchant payables balance was $128 million and $105 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. credit risk and concentrations financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk, consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, corporate debt securities, foreign currency exchange contracts, accounts receivable and customer concentrations. we maintain some cash and cash equivalents balances with financial institutions that are in excess of federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits. our cash and cash equivalents are primarily composed of bank account balances with financial institutions primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, euros, british pound sterling, and australian dollars, as well as, money market funds . we invest in highly-rated corporate debt securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. our credit risk related to corporate debt securities is also mitigated by the relatively short maturity period required by our investment policy. foreign currency exchange contracts are transacted with various international financial institutions with high credit standings, which generally have maturities of less than 90 days. our business is also subject to certain risks due to concentrations related to dependence on our relationships with our customers. for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 our two most significant advertising partners, expedia and priceline, each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and combined accounted for 46%, 46% and 46%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. nearly all of this concentration of revenue is recorded in our hotel segment for these reporting periods. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, expedia accounted for 12% and 11%, respectively, of our total accounts receivable. our overall credit risk related to accounts receivable is mitigated by the relatively short collection period. 86 contingent liabilities periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. we provide disclosure in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both these conditions if there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred that would be material to the financial statements. significant judgment may be required to determine the probability that a liability has been incurred and whether such liability is reasonably estimable. we base accruals made on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from the amounts included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. comprehensive income (loss) comprehensive income (loss) currently consists of net income, cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, and unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, net of tax. earnings per share ( eps ) we compute basic earnings per share by taking net income divided by the weighted average number of common and class b common shares outstanding during the period. diluted earnings per share include the potential dilution of common equivalent shares outstanding that could occur from stock-based awards and other stock-based commitments using the treasury stock method. we compute diluted earnings per share by dividing net income by the sum of the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. for additional information on how we compute earnings per share, see note 5 earnings per share . new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted in january 2017, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued new accounting guidance which assist entities in evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business. the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017, and will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring within the period of adoption. early adoption is permitted, including for interim or annual periods in which the financial statements have not been issued or made available for issuance. we are in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in january 2017, the fasb issued new accounting guidance to simplify the accounting for goodwill impairment. the guidance removes step two of the goodwill impairment test, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation. under the new guidance, a goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. all other goodwill impairment guidance will remain largely unchanged. entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary. the guidance is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted for any goodwill impairment tests performed after january 1, 2017 and will be applied prospectively. we are in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in november 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which requires entities to show the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flow. the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, including adoption in an interim period, but any adjustments must be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. upon adoption, an entity may apply the new guidance only retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. we anticipate adopting this new guidance on january 1, 2018, on a retrospective basis, with no material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 87 in october 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which amends the consolidation guidance on how a reporting entity that is the single decision maker of a variable interest entity should treat indirect interests in the entity held through related parties that are under common control within the reporting entity when determining whether it is the primary beneficiary of that variable interest entity. the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. we anticipate adopting this new guidance on january 1, 2017, on a retrospective basis, with no material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in october 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on income tax accounting associated with intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. this accounting update, which is part of the fasb's simplification initiative, is intended to reduce diversity in practice and the complexity of tax accounting, particularly for those transfers involving intellectual property. this new guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. upon adoption, an entity may apply the new guidance only on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. we are in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures and our intended adoption date. in august 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which clarifies how companies present and classify certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. the new guidance specifically addresses the following cash flow topics in an effort to reduce diversity in practice: (1) debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs; (2) settlement of zero-coupon bonds; (3) contingent consideration payments made after a business combination; (4) proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims; (5) proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies, including bank-owned life insurance policies; (6) distributions received from equity method investees; (7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions; and (8) separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principle. the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. upon adoption, an entity may apply the new guidance only retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. we anticipate adopting this new guidance on january 1, 2018, on a retrospective basis, and it is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in june 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on the measurement of credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, which includes accounts receivable, and available-for-sale debt securities. for financial assets measured at amortized cost, this new guidance requires an entity to (1) estimate its lifetime expected credit losses upon recognition of the financial assets and establish an allowance to present the net amount expected to be collected, (2) recognize this allowance and changes in the allowance during subsequent periods through net income; and (3) consider relevant information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts in assessing the lifetime expected credit losses. for available-for-sale debt securities, this new guidance made several targeted amendments to the existing other-than-temporary impairment model, including (1) requiring disclosure of the allowance for credit losses, (2) allowing reversals of the previously recognized credit losses until the entity has the intent to sell, is more-likely-than-not required to sell the securities or the maturity of the securities, (3) limiting impairment to the difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value; and (4) not allowing entities to consider the length of time that fair value has been less than amortized cost as a factor in evaluating whether a credit loss exists. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, including interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018. we are in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures and our intended adoption date. in february 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on leases that is intended to provide enhanced transparency and comparability by requiring lessees to record right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities on the balance sheet at the present value of the lease payments. the new guidance will classify leases as either finance or operating leases, with classification determining the presentation of expenses and cash flows on our consolidated financial statements. the guidance also requires new disclosures to help financial statement users better understand the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 88 2018, with early adoption permitted, which will require the recognition and measurement of leases at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements using a modified retrospective approach. we are currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, as well as still determining our adoption date. we anticipate giving additional updates on our form-10q's during the first and second quarters of 2017. in january 2016, the fasb issued a new accounting update which amends the guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments. although the accounting update retains many current requirements, it significantly revises accounting related to (1) the classification and measurement of investments in equity securities and (2) the presentation of certain fair value changes for financial liabilities measured at fair value. the accounting update also amends certain fair value disclosures of financial instruments and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale debt securities in combination with the entity's evaluation of their other deferred tax assets. the update requires entities to carry all investments in equity securities, including other ownership interests such as partnerships, unincorporated joint ventures and limited liability companies at fair value, with fair value changes recognized through net income. this requirement does not apply to investments that qualify for equity method accounting, investments that result in consolidation of the investee or investments in which the entity has elected the practicability exception to fair value measurement. under current u.s. gaap, the company's available-for-sale investments in equity securities with readily identifiable market value are remeasured to fair value each reporting period with changes in fair value recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). however, under the new accounting literature, fair value adjustments will be recognized through net income and could vary significantly quarter to quarter. for the investments currently accounted for under the cost method, an entity can elect to measure its investments, which do not have a readily determinable fair value, at cost less impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. additionally, this accounting update will simplify the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment. when a qualitative assessment indicates that impairment exists, an entity is required to measure the investment at fair value. in addition, this accounting update eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is currently required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost in the balance sheet. we anticipate adopting this new guidance on january 1, 2018 and are in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in may 2014, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on revenue from contracts with customers which will replace numerous requirements in gaap, and provide companies with a single revenue recognition model for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers. the core principle of the new standard is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. this guidance also requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. in march 2016, the fasb issued additional guidance which clarifies principal versus agent considerations and in april 2016, the fasb issued further guidance which clarifies the identification of performance obligations and the implementation guidance for licensing. the two permitted transition methods under this new accounting guidance are the full retrospective method, in which case the guidance would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the guidance would be recognized at the earliest period shown, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the guidance would be recognized at the date of initial application. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2016. during 2016, we have made measurable progress toward completing our evaluation of the potential changes from adopting the new standard on our future financial reporting and disclosures. we have established a cross-functional implementation team from across our organization and have made significant progress in the review of our contracts portfolio and our current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that could result from applying the requirements of the new standard to our revenue contracts. we will continue to evaluate the impact that this new guidance will have, if any, on the company's consolidated financial statements and related 89 disclosures and are still determining the method of adoption we will elect for this new guidance. we anticipate adopting this new guidance on january 1, 2018, and plan on giving additional updates on our progress and further conclusions on our form-10q's during the first and second quarters of 2017 . recently adopted accounting pronouncements in march 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on stock compensation, or asu 2016-09, compensation stock compensation (topic 718): improvements to employee share-based payment accounting , which changes how companies account for certain aspects of stock-based payment awards to employees, including the accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, and statutory tax withholding requirements, as well as classification in the consolidated statement of cash flows. the new guidance permits recognizing the impact of forfeitures on stock-based compensation as they occur or to recognize stock-based compensation expense net of expected forfeitures, requires companies to record excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies as income tax benefit or expense in the consolidated statement of operations when the awards vest or are settled, and eliminates the requirement to reclassify cash flows related to excess tax benefits from operating activities to financing activities on the consolidated statement of cash flows. we elected to early adopt the new guidance in the third quarter of 2016, which requires us to reflect any adjustments as of january 1, 2016, the beginning of the annual period that includes the interim period of adoption. the primary impact of adoption was the recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies in our provision for income taxes rather than additional paid-in capital for all periods in 2016. there was no impact to our provision for income taxes as previously reported for 2015 or prior periods. additionally, our consolidated statement of cash flows now present excess tax benefits as an operating activity on a retrospective basis. as a result of the retrospective implementation of this guidance, the impact on the consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 was an increase of $36 million and $20 million in cash flows from operating activities with an offsetting reduction in cash flows from financing activities. finally, we have elected to account for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. the net cumulative effect of this change was recognized as a $1 million reduction to retained earnings as of january 1, 2016. adoption of the new guidance resulted in the recognition of net excess tax expense and benefit in our provision for income taxes rather than additional paid-in capital. as a result, we recorded $1 million of income tax benefit for the year ended december 31, 2016, and impacted our previously reported quarterly results for the three months ended march 31, 2016 and june 30, 2016, as follows: three months ended march 31, 2016 as reported as adjusted (1)(2) (in millions, except per share data) consolidated statement of operations: operating income $ 42 $ 42 provision for income taxes (11 ) (9 ) net income 27 29 basic eps $ 0.19 $ 0.20 diluted eps $ 0.18 $ 0.20 consolidated statement of cash flows: net cash provided by operating activities $ 120 $ 124 net cash used in financing activities $ (94 ) $ (98 ) 90 three months ended june 30, 2016 as reported as adjusted (1) (in millions, except per share data) consolidated statement of operations: operating income $ 48 $ 47 provision for income taxes (11 ) (10 ) net income 34 34 basic eps $ 0.23 $ 0.23 diluted eps $ 0.23 $ 0.23 six months ended june 30, 2016 as reported as adjusted (2) (in millions) consolidated statement of cash flows: net cash provided by operating activities $ 357 $ 363 net cash used in financing activities $ (123 ) $ (129 ) (1) the election to account for forfeitures as they occur did not have a material impact for the three months ended march 31, 2016 and resulted in an increase to stock-based compensation expense of approximately $1 million for the three months ended june 30, 2016. (2) includes the reclassification of cash flows related to excess tax benefits from financing activities to operating activities of $4 million and $2 million for the three months ending march 31, 2016 and june 30, 2016, respectively. in april 2015, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which clarifies the accounting for fees paid by a customer in a cloud computing arrangement. this standard clarified whether a customer should account for a cloud computing arrangement as an acquisition of a software license or as a service arrangement by providing characteristics that a cloud computing arrangement must have in order to be accounted for as a software license acquisition. if a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. if the arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for a cloud computing arrangement as a service contract. the company prospectively adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2016. the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. note 3: acquisitions and dispositions we acquired a number of businesses during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. these business combinations were accounted for as purchases of businesses under the acquisition method. the fair value of purchase consideration has been allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date, with the remaining amount recorded to goodwill. acquired goodwill represents the premium we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. we paid a premium in each of these transactions for a number of reasons, including expected operational synergies, the assembled workforces, and the future development initiatives of the assembled workforces. the results of each of these acquired businesses have been included in the consolidated financial statements beginning on the respective acquisition dates. pro-forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented as the financial impact to our consolidated financial statements, both individually and in aggregate, would not be materially different from historical results. for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were $1 million, $1 million and $4 million, respectively, and are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. 2016 acquisition of businesses during the year ended december 31, 2016, we completed five acquisitions with a total purchase price of $34 million. the company paid net cash consideration of $28 million, which is net of $4 million of cash acquired, and includes $2 million in future holdback payments, which we currently plan to settle in company common stock. the 91 cash consideration was paid primarily from our u.s. cash. we acquired 100% of the outstanding capital stock of the following companies: tous au restaurant, a leading restaurant event week brand in france, purchased in january 2016; housetrip, a european-based vacation rental website, purchased in april 2016; citymaps, a social mapping platform, purchased in august 2016; sneat, a provider of a mobile reservation platform for restaurants in france, purchased in october 2016; and couverts, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in the netherlands, purchased in october 2016. the purchase price allocation of our 2016 acquisitions is preliminary and subject to revision as more information becomes available, but in any case will not be revised beyond twelve months after the acquisition date and any change to the fair value of assets acquired or liabilities assumed will lead to a corresponding change to the purchase price allocable to goodwill in the period the adjustment is determined. the purchase price allocation is not yet finalized for income tax-related balances for citymaps. the aggregate purchase price consideration of $34 million was allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as follows, in millions: total goodwill (1) $ 17 intangible assets (2) 25 net tangible assets (liabilities) (3) (8 ) total purchase price consideration (4) $ 34 (1) goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2016 were comprised of trade names of $4 million with a weighted average life of 10 years, customer lists and supplier relationships of $4 million with a weighted average life of 6 years, subscriber relationships of $5 million with a weighted average life of approximately 7 years, and technology and other of $12 million with a weighted average life of approximately 5 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of these businesses during 2016 was 6 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) primarily includes cash acquired of $4 million, accounts receivable of $2 million, and liabilities assumed, including accrued expenses and deferred merchant payables of $3 million and $10 million, respectively, which reflect their respective fair values at acquisition. (4) subject to adjustment based on (i) final working capital adjustment calculations to be determined for sneat and couverts, and (ii) indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of the acquired company stockholders. 2016 other investments during the fourth quarter of 2016, we purchased a total of $14 million of cost method investments in the equity securities of the following privately-held companies: eatigo international pte ltd, a leading restaurant reservation business in southeast asia; eatwith media ltd, an israeli-based business which helps match travelers with local chefs for a unique dining experience; and traxo, inc., a u.s. based company providing software-driven itinerary aggregation and loyalty program management solutions. these investments were recorded to other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheet on the acquisition date. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our international subsidiaries. 2015 acquisition of businesses during the year ended december 31, 2015, we completed three acquisitions for a total purchase price consideration of $28 million and paid in cash. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our international subsidiaries. we acquired 100% of the outstanding capital stock of the following companies: zetrip, a personal journal app that helps users log activities, including places they have visited and photos they have taken, purchased in january 2015; besttables, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in portugal 92 and brazil, purchased in march 2015; and dimmi, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in australia, purchased in may 2015. the aggregate purchase price consideration of $28 million was allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as follows, in millions: total goodwill (1) $ 17 intangible assets (2) 12 net tangible assets (liabilities) 1 deferred tax liabilities, net (2 ) total purchase price consideration (3) $ 28 (1) goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2015 were comprised of trade names of $2 million with a weighted average life of approximately 10 years, customer lists and supplier relationships of $7 million with a weighted average life of approximately 6 years and technology and other of $3 million with a weighted average life of approximately 2 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of these businesses during 2015 was 6 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) subject to adjustment based on indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of certain acquired company stockholders. 2015 sale of business in august 2015, we sold 100% interest in one of our chinese subsidiaries to an unrelated third party for $28 million in cash consideration. accordingly, we deconsolidated $11 million of assets (which included $3 million of cash sold) and $4 million of liabilities from our consolidated balance sheet and recognized a $20 million gain on sale of subsidiary in our consolidated statements of operations in interest income and other, net during the year ended december 31, 2015. 2014 acquisition of businesses in august 2014, we completed our acquisition of viator, inc., a leading resource for researching and booking destination activities around the world. our total purchase price was $192 million, for all the outstanding shares of capital stock of viator, consisting of approximately $187 million in cash consideration (or $132 million, net of cash acquired from viator of $55 million) and the value of certain viator stock options that were assumed. we issued 100,595 tripadvisor stock options related to the assumed viator stock options. the fair value of the earned portion of assumed stock options was $5 million and is included in the purchase price, with the remaining fair value of $3 million resulting in post-acquisition compensation expense recognized ratably over three years from the date of acquisition. the total cash consideration was paid from one of our u.s. based subsidiaries. during the year ended december 31, 2014, we completed six other acquisitions for a total purchase price consideration of $208 million, for which the company paid total cash consideration of $199 million, which is net of cash acquired of $7 million and approximately $2 million in holdbacks for general representations and warranties of the respective sellers, which has been subsequently paid by the company. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our international subsidiaries. we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of capital stock for the following companies; vacation home rentals, a u.s.-based vacation rental website featuring properties around the world purchased in may 2014; london-based tripbod, a travel community that helps connect travelers to local experts purchased in may 2014; lafourchette, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in europe purchased in may 2014; mytable and restopolis, both providers of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in italy purchased in october 2014; and iens, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in the netherlands purchased in december 2014. during the year ended december 31, 2014, all 2014 acquisitions accounted for approximately 3% of consolidated revenue for the year. 93 the aggregate purchase price consideration of $400 million was allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as follows, in millions: total goodwill (1) $ 253 intangible assets (2) 194 net tangible assets (liabilities) (3) (7 ) deferred tax liabilities, net (40 ) total purchase price consideration $ 400 (1) goodwill in the amount of $5 million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2014 were comprised of trade names of $44 million with a weighted average life of 10 years, customer lists and supplier relationships of $82 million with an approximate weighted average life of 7 years, subscriber relationships of $25 million with a weighted average life of 6 years and developed technology and other of $43 million with an approximate weighted average life of 5 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of the companies during 2014 was approximately 7 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) includes assets acquired, including cash of $62 million and accounts receivable of $25 million and liabilities assumed, including deferred merchant payables of $76 million, accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $15 million and deferred revenue of $5 million which reflect their respective fair values at acquisition date. note 4: stock based awards and other equity instruments stock-based compensation expense the following table presents the amount of stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards, primarily stock options and rsus, on our consolidated statements of operations during the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) selling and marketing $ 20 $ 16 $ 13 technology and content 40 28 27 general and administrative 25 28 23 total stock-based compensation expense 85 72 63 income tax benefit from stock-based compensation expense (31 ) (26 ) (24 ) total stock-based compensation expense, net of tax effect $ 54 $ 46 $ 39 during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we capitalized $12 million, $8 million and $8 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense as internal-use software and website development costs. stock and incentive plans on december 20, 2011, our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan became effective and we filed post-effective amendment no. 1 on form s-8 to registration statement on form s-4 (file no. 333-178637) (the prior registration statement ) with the securities and exchange commission, registering a total of 17,500,000 shares of our common stock, of which 17,400,000 shares were issuable in connection with grants of equity-based awards under our 2011 incentive plan (7,400,000 of which shares were originally registered on the form s-4 and 10,000,000 of which shares were first registered on the prior registration statement) and 100,000 shares were issuable under our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (refer to note 14 employee benefit plans below for information on our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors). 94 at our annual meeting of stockholders held on june 28, 2013 (the annual meeting ), our stockholders approved an amendment to our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan to, among other things, increase the aggregate number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance thereunder by 15,000,000 shares. we refer to our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan, as amended by the amendment as the 2011 incentive plan. on september 12, 2014, we filed a registration statement on form s-8 with respect to up to 100,595 shares of our common stock for issuance under the viator, inc. 2010 stock incentive plan, as amended (the viator plan ). pursuant to the amended and restated agreement and plan of merger among tripadvisor llc; vineyard acquisition corporation and viator, inc., dated as of july 24, 2014 (the merger agreement ), vineyard acquisition corporation merged with and into viator, inc. with viator, inc. surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company. in accordance with the merger agreement, we assumed certain outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock of viator granted under the viator plan (the assumed options ). as a result of this assumption, the assumed options were converted into options to purchase shares of our common stock. we do not intend to grant new equity or equity-based awards under the viator plan. pursuant to the 2011 incentive plan, we may, among other things, grant rsus, restricted stock, stock options and other stock-based awards to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. the summary of the material terms of the 2011 incentive plan is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the 2011 incentive plan previously filed. as of december 31, 2016, the total number of shares available for issuance under the 2011 incentive plan is 15,051,221 shares. all shares of common stock issued in respect of the exercise of options or other equity awards since spin-off have been issued from authorized, but unissued common stock. stock based award activity and valuation 2016 stock option activity during the year ended december 31, 2016, we have issued 1,063,672 of primarily service based non-qualified stock options from the 2011 incentive plan. these stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and generally vest equally over a four-year requisite service period. a summary of our stock option activity is presented below: weighted weighted average average exercise remaining aggregate options price per contractual intrinsic outstanding share life value (in thousands) (in years) (in millions) options outstanding at december 31, 2015 5,720 $ 53.71 granted 1,064 63.43 exercised (1) (733 ) 31.58 cancelled or expired (233 ) 70.76 options outstanding as of december 31, 2016 5,818 $ 57.60 5.5 $ 25 exercisable as of december 31, 2016 2,796 $ 42.95 4.3 $ 24 (1) inclusive of 318,773 options, which were not converted into shares due to net share settlement in order to cover the aggregate exercise price and the minimum amount of required employee withholding taxes. potential shares which had been convertible under stock options that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2011 incentive plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the closing stock price of our common stock and the exercise price of outstanding, in-the-money options. our closing stock price as reported on nasdaq as of 95 december 31, 2016 was $46.37. the total intrinsic value of stock options exercised for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $24 million, $149 million, and $75 million, respectively. the fair value of stock option grants under the 2011 incentive plan has been estimated at the date of grant using the black scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for the periods presented: december 31, 2016 2015 2014 risk free interest rate 1.20 % 1.58 % 1.79 % expected term (in years) 4.85 5.42 5.80 expected volatility 41.81 % 41.79 % 44.04 % expected dividend yield % % % the weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted, excluding assumed options, was $22.95, $33.02, and $46.65 for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. the weighted-average grant date fair value of assumed options was $80.31 for the year ended december 31, 2014. the total fair value of stock options vested for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $28 million, $36 million, and $34 million, respectively. 2016 rsu activity during the year ended december 31, 2016, we issued 2,015,898 rsus under the 2011 incentive plan for which the fair value was measured based on the quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant. these rsus generally vest over a four-year requisite service period. the following table presents a summary of our rsu activity: weighted average grant- aggregate rsus date fair intrinsic outstanding value per share value (in thousands) (in millions) unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2015 1,750 $ 79.02 granted 2,016 63.71 vested and released (1) (627 ) 76.02 cancelled (283 ) 73.06 unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2016 2,856 $ 69.35 $ 132 (1) inclusive of 173,429 rsus withheld to satisfy employee minimum tax withholding requirements due to net share settlement. potential shares which had been convertible under rsus that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2011 incentive plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. cash received from stock option exercises for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, were $7 million, $12 million and $3 million. total current income tax benefits during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014 associated with the exercise or settlement of tripadvisor stock-based awards held by our employees were $21 million, $63 million and $32 million, respectively. 96 unrecognized stock-based compensation a summary of our remaining unrecognized compensation expense and the weighted average remaining amortization period at december 31, 2016 related to our non-vested stock options and rsu awards is presented below (in millions, except per year information): stock options rsus unrecognized compensation expense $ 48 $ 149 weighted average period remaining (in years) 2.3 2.8 note 5: earnings per share basic earnings per share attributable to common stockholders we compute basic earnings per share ( basic eps ) by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. we compute the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period using the total of common stock and class b common stock outstanding as of the last day of the previous year end reporting period plus the weighted average of any additional shares issued and outstanding less the weighted average of any common shares repurchased during the reporting period. diluted earnings per share attributable to common stockholders diluted earnings per share include the potential dilution of common equivalent shares outstanding that could occur from stock-based awards and other stock-based commitments using the treasury stock method. we compute diluted earnings per share ( diluted eps ) by dividing net income by the sum of the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. we computed the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period using the sum of (i) the number of shares of common stock and class b common stock used in the basic earnings per share calculation as indicated above, and (ii) if dilutive, the incremental weighted average common stock that we would issue upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common equivalent shares related to stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units using the treasury stock method, and (iii) if dilutive, performance based awards based on the number of shares that would be issuable as of the end of the reporting period assuming the end of the reporting period was also the end of the contingency period. under the treasury stock method, the assumed proceeds calculation includes the actual proceeds to be received from the employee upon exercise of outstanding equity awards and the average unrecognized compensation cost during the period. the treasury stock method assumes that a company uses the proceeds from the exercise of an equity award to repurchase common stock at the average market price for the reporting period. 97 below is a reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding in calculating diluted eps (shares in thousands and dollars in millions, except per share amounts) for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 numerator: net income $ 120 $ 198 $ 226 denominator: weighted average shares used to compute basic eps 145,443 143,836 142,721 weighted average effect of dilutive securities: stock options 1,129 1,839 2,734 rsus and other dilutive securities 321 292 345 weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps 146,893 145,967 145,800 basic eps $ 0.83 $ 1.38 $ 1.58 diluted eps $ 0.82 $ 1.36 $ 1.55 the following potential common shares related to stock options and rsus were excluded from the calculation of diluted eps because their effect would have been anti-dilutive for the periods presented (in thousands): year ended december 31, 2016(1) 2015(2) 2014(3) stock options 3,019 2,142 1,450 rsus 860 562 191 total 3,879 2,704 1,641 (1) these totals do not include 125,000 performance based options and 12,799 performance based rsus representing the right to acquire 137,799 shares of common stock for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved; therefore, such awards were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. (2) these totals do not include 66,666 performance based options and 12,799 performance based rsus representing the right to acquire 79,465 shares of common stock for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved; therefore, such awards were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. (3) these totals do not include 66,666 performance based options and 44,000 performance based rsus representing the right to acquire 110,666 shares of common stock, respectively, for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved; therefore, such awards were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. the earnings per share amounts are the same for common stock and class b common stock because the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share distributions whether through dividends or in liquidation. 98 note 6: financial instruments cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities the following tables show our cash and available-for-sale securities' amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value by significant investment category recorded as cash and cash equivalents or short and long-term marketable securities as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 (in millions): december 31, 2016 cash and short-term long-term amortized unrealized unrealized fair cash marketable marketable cost gains losses value equivalents securities securities cash $ 595 $ $ $ 595 $ 595 $ $ level 1: money market funds 17 17 17 level 2: u.s. agency securities 23 23 21 2 u.s. treasury securities 8 8 8 certificates of deposit 16 16 15 1 commercial paper 5 5 5 corporate debt securities 82 82 69 13 subtotal 134 134 118 16 total $ 746 $ $ $ 746 $ 612 $ 118 $ 16 december 31, 2015 cash and short-term long-term amortized unrealized unrealized fair cash marketable marketable cost gains losses value equivalents securities securities cash $ 598 $ $ $ 598 $ 598 $ $ level 1: money market funds 11 11 11 level 2: u.s. agency securities 13 13 9 4 u.s. treasury securities 16 16 4 12 certificates of deposit 5 5 4 1 commercial paper 1 1 1 corporate debt securities 54 54 1 21 32 subtotal 89 89 5 47 37 total $ 698 $ $ $ 698 $ 614 $ 47 $ 37 our cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand in global financial institutions, money market funds and marketable securities, with maturities of 90 days or less at the date purchased. the remaining maturities of our long-term marketable securities range from one to three years and our short-term marketable securities include maturities that were greater than 90 days at the date purchased and have 12 months or less remaining at december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. we classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities within level 1 and level 2 as we value our cash equivalents and marketable securities using quoted market prices (level 1) or alternative pricing sources (level 2). the valuation technique we used to measure the fair value of money market funds were derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. fair values for level 2 investments are considered level 2 valuations because they are obtained from independent pricing sources for identical or comparable instruments, rather than direct observations of quoted prices in active markets. our procedures include controls to ensure that appropriate fair values are recorded, including comparing the fair values obtained from our independent pricing services against fair values obtained from another independent source. 99 there were no material realized gains or losses related to sales of our marketable securities for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014. we consider any individual investments in an unrealized loss position to be temporary in nature and do not consider any of our investments other-than-temporarily impaired as of december 31, 2016. derivative financial instruments our current forward contracts are not designated as hedges and have current maturities of less than 90 days. consequently, any gain or loss resulting from the change in fair value was recognized in our consolidated statement of operations. we recorded a net gain of $2 million, $2 million, and $1 million for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, related to our settled and outstanding forward contracts in our consolidated statements of operations in interest income and other, net. the following table shows the notional principal amounts of our outstanding derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments for the periods presented: december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (in millions) foreign currency exchange-forward contracts (1)(2) $ 6 $ 25 (1) derivative contracts address foreign currency exchange fluctuations for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. the company was entered into two outstanding derivative contracts as of december 31, 2016. (2) the fair value of our derivatives are not material for all periods presented and are reported as assets in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheets. we measure the fair value of our outstanding or unsettled derivatives using level 2 fair value inputs, as we use a pricing model that takes into account the contract terms as well as current foreign currency exchange rates in active markets. counterparties to foreign currency exchange derivatives consist of major international financial institutions. we monitor our positions and the credit ratings of the counterparties involved and, by policy limits, the amount of credit exposure to any one party. while we may be exposed to potential losses due to the credit risk of non-performance by these counterparties, losses are not anticipated and any credit risk amounts associated with our outstanding or unsettled derivative instruments are deemed to be not material for any period presented. other financial instruments other financial instruments not measured at fair value on a recurring basis include accounts receivable, accounts payable, deferred merchant payables, short-term debt, accrued and other current liabilities and long-term debt. with the exception of long-term debt, the carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments as reported on our consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015, respectively. the carrying value of the long-term debt from our 2015 credit facility bears interest at a variable rate and therefore is also considered to approximate fair value. we also hold investments in equity securities of privately-held companies of approximately $14 million at december 31, 2016. these investments were purchased during the fourth quarter of 2016, and are accounted for under the cost method and included in "other long-term assets" in the company's consolidated balance sheet. as of december 31, 2016, we did not estimate the fair value of these cost-method investments because there were no identified events or changes in circumstances, since acquisition, which may have a significant adverse impact on the carrying values of these investments. refer to note 3 acquisitions and dispositions above for further information on these investments. we did not have any level 3 assets or liabilities at december 31, 2016 or 2015. 100 note 7: property and equipment, net property and equipment consists of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (in millions) capitalized software and website development $ 153 $ 127 building (1) 123 123 leasehold improvements 39 32 computer equipment and purchased software 37 36 furniture, office equipment and other 19 17 371 335 less: accumulated depreciation (111 ) (88 ) total $ 260 $ 247 (1) the company is deemed for accounting purposes to be the owner of its corporate headquarters building under gaap, and depreciates the asset over its estimated useful life of 40 years on a straight-line basis. refer to note 13 commitments and contingencies , for additional information on our corporate headquarters lease. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, our recorded capitalized software and website development costs, net of accumulated amortization, were $86 million and $71 million, respectively. for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, we capitalized $62 million and $52 million, respectively, related to software and website development costs. for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recorded amortization of capitalized software and website development costs of $46 million, $37 million and $30 million, respectively, which is included in depreciation expense on our consolidated statements of operations for those years. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we retired and disposed of property and equipment, primarily capitalized software and website development and computer equipment, which were no longer in use and fully depreciated with a total cost of $45 million. note 8: goodwill and intangible assets, net the following table summarizes our goodwill activity by segment for the periods presented: hotel non-hotel consolidated (in millions) balance as of december 31, 2014 $ 442 $ 292 $ 734 acquisitions (1) 1 16 17 disposition (1 ) (1 ) other adjustments (2) (18 ) (18 ) balance as of december 31, 2015 $ 442 $ 290 $ 732 acquisitions (1) 10 7 17 other adjustments (2) (1 ) (12 ) (13 ) ending balance as of december 31, 2016 $ 451 $ 285 $ 736 (1) the additions to goodwill relate to our business acquisitions. see note 3 acquisitions and dispositions , for further information. (2) primarily related to impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates to goodwill. 101 intangible assets, which were acquired in business combinations and recorded at fair value on the date of purchase, consist of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2016 2015 (in millions) intangible assets with definite lives $ 217 $ 198 less: accumulated amortization (80 ) (52 ) intangible assets with definite lives, net 137 146 intangible assets with indefinite lives 30 30 total $ 167 $ 176 amortization expense was $32 million, $36 million, and $18 million, respectively, for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. our indefinite-lived intangible assets relate to trade names and trademarks. there were no impairment charges recognized to our consolidated statement of operations during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 related to our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. the following table presents the components of our intangible assets with definite lives for the periods presented: december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 weighted average gross net gross net remaining life carrying accumulated carrying carrying accumulated carrying (in years) amount amortization amount amount amortization amount (in millions) (in millions) trade names and trademarks 7.8 $ 56 $ (14 ) $ 42 $ 53 $ (9 ) $ 44 customer lists and supplier relationships 4.6 84 (31 ) 53 82 (20 ) 62 subscriber relationships 4.8 33 (15 ) 18 29 (9 ) 20 technology and other 3.4 44 (20 ) 24 34 (14 ) 20 total 5.4 $ 217 $ (80 ) $ 137 $ 198 $ (52 ) $ 146 refer to note 3 acquisitions and dispositions above for a discussion of definite lived intangible assets acquired in business combinations during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015. intangible assets with definite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis. the estimated amortization expense for intangible assets with definite lives for each of the next five years, and the expense thereafter, assuming no subsequent impairment of the underlying assets, is expected to be as follows (in millions): 2017 $ 31 2018 28 2019 26 2020 21 2021 14 2022 and thereafter 17 total $ 137 102 note 9: debt the company's outstanding debt consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, december 31, 2016 2015 (in millions) short-term debt: chinese credit facilities $ 7 $ 1 2016 credit facility 73 total short-term debt (1) $ 80 $ 1 long-term debt: 2015 credit facility $ 91 $ 200 total long-term debt $ 91 $ 200 (1) the weighted-average interest rate on short-term debt was 2.1% as of december 31, 2016. 2011 credit facility on december 20, 2011, we entered into a credit agreement (the 2011 credit facility ) with a group of lenders, which provided $600 million of borrowing including: a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $400 million with a term of five years due december 2016 ( term loan ); and a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $200 million available in u.s. dollars, euros and british pound sterling with a term of five years expiring december 2016. on june 26, 2015, the entire outstanding principal on our term loan in the amount of $290 million was repaid with borrowings from our 2015 credit facility (described below) and the 2011 credit facility was subsequently terminated. during the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, we recorded total interest and commitment fees on our 2011 credit facility of $3 million and $6 million, respectively, to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. there was no resulting loss on early extinguishment of this debt. 2015 credit facility on june 26, 2015, we entered into a five year credit agreement (the 2015 credit facility ) with a group of lenders and immediately borrowed $290 million. the 2015 credit facility, among other things, provides for (i) a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, (ii) an interest rate on borrowings and commitment fees based on the company's and its subsidiaries' consolidated leverage ratio and (iii) uncommitted incremental revolving loan and term loan facilities, subject to compliance with a leverage covenant and other conditions. any overdue amounts under or in respect of the revolving credit facility not paid when due shall bear interest at (i) in the case of principal, the applicable interest rate plus 2.00% per annum, (ii) in the case of interest denominated in sterling or euro, the applicable rate plus 2.00% per annum and (iii) in the case of interest denominated in us dollars, 2.00% per annum plus the alternate base rate plus the interest rate spread applicable to abr loans. the company may borrow from the revolving credit facility in u.s dollars, euros and british pound sterling with a term of five years expiring june 26, 2020. we also incurred lender fees and debt financing costs totaling $3 million in connection with entering into the 2015 credit facility, which were capitalized as deferred financing costs and recorded to other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet. these costs will continue to be amortized over the term of the 2015 credit facility using the effective interest rate method and recorded to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. there is no specific repayment date prior to the five-year maturity date for borrowings under this revolving credit facility. during the year ended december 31, 2016, the company borrowed an additional $101 million and repaid $210 million of our outstanding borrowings on the 2015 credit facility. based on the company's current leverage ratio, our borrowings bear interest at libor plus 125 basis points, or the eurocurrency spread. the 103 company is currently borrowing under a one-month interest period of 2.0% per annum, using a one-month interest period eurocurrency spread, which will reset periodically. interest will be payable on a monthly basis while the company is borrowing under the one-month interest rate period. we are also required to pay a quarterly commitment fee, on the daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility for each fiscal quarter and fees in connection with the issuance of letters of credit. unused revolver capacity is currently subject to a commitment fee of 20.0 basis points, given the company's current leverage ratio. the 2015 credit facility includes $15 million of borrowing capacity available for letters of credit and $40 million for borrowings on same-day notice. as of december 31, 2016, we had issued $3 million of outstanding letters of credit under the 2015 credit facility . during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, we recorded total interest and commitment fees on our 2015 credit facility of $4 million and $2 million, respectively, to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. all unpaid interest and commitment fee amounts as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, were not material. we may voluntarily repay any outstanding borrowing under the 2015 credit facility at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs with respect to eurocurrency loans. certain wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of the company have agreed to guarantee the company's obligations under the 2015 credit facility. the 2015 credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur additional indebtedness, create liens, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, engage in mergers or consolidations, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends and distributions, make investments, loans or advances, prepay certain subordinated indebtedness, make certain acquisitions, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, amend material agreements governing certain subordinated indebtedness, and change our fiscal year. the 2015 credit facility also requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default, including a change of control. if an event of default occurs, the lenders under the 2015 credit facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of all amounts due under the 2015 credit facility. additionally, the 2015 credit facility includes a subjective acceleration clause, which could be triggered by the lenders, if a representation, warranty or statement made by the company proves to be incorrect in any material respect, which in turn would permit the lenders to accelerate repayment of any outstanding obligations. the company believes that the likelihood of the lender exercising this right is remote and, as such, we classify borrowings under this facility as long-term debt. as of december 31, 2016, we are in compliance with all of our debt covenants. 2016 credit facility on september 7, 2016, we entered into an uncommitted facility agreement with bank of america merrill lynch international limited (the lender ), which provides for a $73 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2016 credit facility ) with no specific expiration date. the 2016 credit facility is available at the lender's absolute discretion and can be canceled at any time. repayment terms for borrowings under the 2016 credit facility are generally one to six month periods and bear interest at libor plus 112.5 basis points. the company may borrow from the 2016 credit facility in u.s dollars only and we may voluntarily repay any outstanding borrowing at any time without premium or penalty. any overdue amounts under or in respect of the 2016 credit facility not paid when due shall bear interest in the case of principal at the applicable interest rate plus 1.50% per annum. in connection with the 2016 credit facility, any lender fees and debt financing costs paid were not material. in addition, tripadvisor, llc, a wholly-owned domestic subsidiary of the company, has agreed to guarantee the company's obligations under the 2016 credit facility. there are no specific financial or incurrence covenants. we borrowed $73 million from this uncommitted credit facility in september 2016. these funds were used for general working capital needs of the company, primarily for partial repayment of our long term debt, and the liability is recorded in short-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2016. the company is currently borrowing under a one-month interest period of 1.9% per annum, which will reset periodically. interest will be payable on a monthly basis while the company is borrowing under the one-month interest rate period. during the year ended december 31, 2016, total interest recorded with respect to our 2016 credit facility to interest expense on our consolidated statement of operations was not material. 104 chinese credit facilities in addition to our borrowings under the 2015 credit facility and 2016 credit facility, we maintain two credit facilities in china (jointly, the chinese credit facilities ). as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015, we had short-term borrowings outstanding of $7 million and $1 million, respectively. we are parties to a $30 million, one-year revolving credit facility with bank of america (the chinese credit facility boa ) that is currently subject to review on a periodic basis with no specific expiration period. our chinese credit facility boa currently bears interest at a 100% of the people's bank of china's base rate which was 4.35% as of december 31, 2016. as of december 31, 2016, there are no outstanding borrowings under our chinese credit facility boa. we are also parties to a rmb 70,000,000 (approximately $10 million) one-year revolving credit facility with j.p. morgan chase bank ( chinese credit facility-jpm ) which was reduced from rmb 125,000,000 (approximately $18 million) during the year ended december 31, 2016. our chinese credit facility jpm currently bears interest at a rate based on 100% of the people's bank of china's base rate, which was 4.35% as of december 31, 2016. as of december 31, 2016, we had $7 million of outstanding borrowings from the chinese credit facility jpm. note 10: income taxes the following table presents a summary of our domestic and foreign income before income taxes: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) domestic $ 64 $ 67 $ 146 foreign 87 172 176 total $ 151 $ 239 $ 322 the following table presents a summary of the components of our provision for income taxes: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) current income tax expense: federal $ 38 $ 48 $ 93 state 2 8 14 foreign 11 22 6 current income tax expense 51 78 113 deferred income tax (benefit) expense: federal (12 ) (29 ) (12 ) state (3 ) (2 ) (1 ) foreign (5 ) (6 ) (4 ) deferred income tax (benefit) expense: (20 ) (37 ) (17 ) provision for income taxes $ 31 $ 41 $ 96 105 the company reduced its current income tax payable by $21 million, $63 million and $32 million for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, for tax deductions attributable to stock-based compensation. the significant components of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: december 31, 2016 2015 (in millions) deferred tax assets: stock-based compensation $ 52 $ 40 net operating loss carryforwards 46 31 provision for accrued expenses 12 12 deferred rent 5 5 lease financing obligation 33 33 foreign advertising spend 10 8 deferred expense related to cost-sharing arrangement 30 20 charitable contribution carryforward 20 24 other 7 4 total deferred tax assets $ 215 $ 177 less: valuation allowance (27 ) (17 ) net deferred tax assets $ 188 $ 160 deferred tax liabilities: intangible assets $ (83 ) $ (81 ) property and equipment (28 ) (27 ) prepaid expenses (6 ) (4 ) building corporate headquarters (31 ) (31 ) deferred income related to cost-sharing arrangement (10 ) (7 ) total deferred tax liabilities $ (158 ) $ (150 ) net deferred tax asset (liability) $ 30 $ 10 at december 31, 2016, we had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards ( nols ) of approximately $23 million, $47 million and $124 million. if not utilized, the federal and state nols will expire at various times between 2020 and 2036 and the foreign nols will expire at various times between 2017 and 2030. the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets of $27 million at december 31, 2016, includes $17 million related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards and $10 million relating to foreign advertising spend carryforward. this amount represented an overall increase of $10 million over the amount recorded as of december 31, 2015. the increase is primarily related to additional foreign net operating losses. except for such foreign deferred tax assets, we expect to realize all of our deferred tax assets based on a strong history of earnings in the us and other jurisdictions, as well as future reversals of taxable temporary differences. we have not provided for deferred u.s. income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries that we have or intend to reinvest permanently outside the united states; the total amount of such earnings as of december 31, 2016 was $828 million. should we distribute or be treated under certain u.s. tax rules as having distributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to u.s. income taxes. due to complexities in tax laws and various assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable at this time to estimate the amount of unrecognized deferred u.s. taxes on these earnings. 106 a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amounts computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income before income taxes is as follows: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) income tax expense at the federal statutory rate of 35% $ 53 $ 84 $ 113 foreign rate differential (35 ) (53 ) (49 ) state income taxes, net of effect of federal tax benefit 4 4 13 unrecognized tax benefits and related interest 11 12 14 change in cost-sharing treatment of stock-based compensation (6 ) (13 ) non-deductible transaction costs 1 1 research tax credit (10 ) (3 ) (2 ) stock-based compensation 2 2 2 change in valuation allowance 9 5 5 other, net 3 2 (1 ) provision for income taxes $ 31 $ 41 $ 96 during 2011, the singapore economic development board accepted our application to receive a tax incentive under the international headquarters award. this incentive provides for a reduced tax rate on qualifying income of 5% as compared to singapore's statutory tax rate of 17% and is conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. this agreement has been extended until june 30, 2021 as we have met certain employment and investment thresholds. this benefit resulted in a decrease to our 2016 provision for income tax expense of $2 million, adding an incremental $0.01 to our diluted eps for the year ended december 31, 2016. by virtue of previously filed consolidated income tax returns filed with expedia, we are currently under an irs audit for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years, and have various ongoing state income tax audits. we are separately under examination by the irs for the 2012 and 2013 tax years and have commenced an employment tax audit with the irs for the 2013 and 2014 tax years. these audits include questioning of the timing and the amount of income and deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. these examinations may lead to proposed or ordinary course adjustments to our taxes. we are no longer subject to tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2008. as of december 31, 2016, no material assessments have resulted, except as noted below regarding our 2009 and 2010 irs audit with expedia. in january 2017, as part of the company's irs audit of expedia, we received notices of proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2009 and 2010 tax years. these proposed adjustments are related to certain transfer pricing arrangements with our foreign subsidiaries, and would result in an increase to our worldwide income tax expense in an estimated range of $10 million to $14 million after consideration of competent authority relief, exclusive of interest and penalties. we disagree with the proposed adjustments and we intend to defend our position through applicable administrative and, if necessary, judicial remedies. our policy is to review and update tax reserves as facts and circumstances change. based on our interpretation of the regulations and available case law, we believe the position we have taken with regard to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries is sustainable. in addition to the risk of additional tax for 2009 and 2010 transactions, if the irs were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, we would be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. in july 2015, the united states tax court (the court ) issued an opinion favorable to altera corporation ( altera ) with respect to altera's litigation with the irs. this opinion was submitted as a final decision under tax court rule 155 during december 2015. the litigation relates to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an inter-company cost-sharing arrangement with altera's foreign subsidiary. in its opinion, the court accepted altera's position of excluding stock based compensation from its inter-company cost-sharing arrangement. the irs appealed the court decision on february 19, 2016. at this time, the u.s. department of the treasury has not withdrawn the requirement from its regulations to include stock-based compensation in intercompany cost-sharing arrangements. the company recorded a tax benefit of $6 million and $13 million in its consolidated statement of operations for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. the company will continue to monitor this matter and related potential impacts to its consolidated financial statements. 107 a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits (excluding interest and penalties) is as follows: december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) balance, beginning of year $ 89 $ 67 $ 36 increases to tax positions related to the current year 16 15 13 increases to tax positions related to the prior year 1 7 18 reductions due to lapsed statute of limitations (1 ) decreases to tax positions related to the prior year settlements during current year balance, end of year $ 105 $ 89 $ 67 as of december 31, 2016, we had $105 million of unrecognized tax benefits, net of interest, which is classified as long-term and included in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce income tax expense by $63 million, due to correlative adjustments in other tax jurisdictions. we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense on our consolidated statement of operations. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, total gross interest accrued was $9 million and $6 million, respectively. we do not anticipate any material changes in the next fiscal year. note 11: accrued expenses and other current liabilities accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (in millions) accrued employee salary, bonus, and related benefits $ 53 $ 47 accrued marketing costs 37 43 other 37 33 total $ 127 $ 123 note 12: other long-term liabilities other long-term liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (in millions) unrecognized tax benefits (1) $ 108 $ 87 financing obligation, net of current portion (2) 84 84 other (3) 18 18 total $ 210 $ 189 (1) see note 10 income taxes for additional information on our unrecognized tax benefits. amount includes accrued interest related to this liability. (2) refer to note 13 commitments and contingencies , for additional information on our corporate headquarters lease. (3) amounts primarily consist of long term deferred rent balances related to operating leases for office space. 108 note 13: commitments and contingencies we have material commitments and obligations that include office space leases, and expected interest and commitment fees on long-term debt, which are not accrued on the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2016 but we expect to require future cash outflows. the following table summarizes our material commitments and obligations as of december 31, 2016: by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years (in millions) property leases, net of sublease income (1) $ 248 $ 25 $ 51 $ 52 $ 120 expected interest payments on 2015 credit facility (2) 7 2 4 1 expected commitment fee payments on 2015 credit facility (3) 7 2 4 1 total (4) $ 262 $ 29 $ 59 $ 54 $ 120 (1) estimated future minimum rental payments under operating leases with non-cancelable lease terms, including our corporate headquarters lease in needham, ma. (2) the amounts included as expected interest payments on the 2015 credit facility in this table are based on the effective interest rate and outstanding borrowings as of december 31, 2016, but, could change significantly in the future. amounts assume that our existing debt is repaid at the end of the credit agreement and do not assume additional borrowings or refinancing of existing debt. refer to note 9 debt for additional information on our 2015 credit facility. (3) the amounts included as expected commitment fee payments in this table are based on the unused portion of credit facility, issued letters of credit, and current effective commitment fee rate as of december 31, 2016; however, these variables could change significantly in the future. (4) excluded from the table was $108 million of unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, that we have recorded in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. we do not anticipate any material changes in the next year. office lease commitments we have contractual obligations in the form of operating leases for office space for which we record the related expense on a monthly basis. certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. rent expense related to such leases is recorded on a straight-line basis. operating lease obligations expire at various dates with the latest maturity in december 2030. for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recorded rental expense of $18 million, $19 million and $17 million, respectively. corporate headquarters lease in june 2013, tripadvisor llc ( ta llc ), our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a lease, for a new corporate headquarters (the lease ). pursuant to the lease, the landlord built an approximately 280,000 square foot rental building in needham, massachusetts (the premises ), and leased the premises to ta llc as our new corporate headquarters for an initial term of 15 years and 7 months or through december 2030. ta llc also has an option to extend the term of the lease for two consecutive terms of five years each. because we were involved in the construction project and were responsible for paying a portion of the costs of normal finish work and structural elements of the premises, the company was deemed for accounting purposes to be the owner of the premises during the construction period under build to suit lease accounting guidance under gaap. therefore, the company recorded project construction costs during the construction period incurred by the landlord as a construction-in-progress asset and a related construction financing obligation on our consolidated balance sheets. the amounts that the company has paid or incurred for normal tenant improvements and structural improvements had also been recorded to the construction-in-progress asset. 109 upon completion of construction at end of the second quarter of 2015, we evaluated the construction-in-progress asset and construction financing obligation for de-recognition under the criteria for sale-leaseback treatment under gaap. we concluded that we have forms of continued economic involvement in the facility, and therefore did not meet the provisions for sale-leaseback accounting. this determination was based on the company's continuing involvement with the property in the form of non-recourse financing to the lessor. therefore, the lease is accounted for as a financing obligation. accordingly, we began depreciating the building asset over its estimated useful life and incurring interest expense related to the financing obligation imputed using the effective interest rate method. we bifurcate our lease payments pursuant to the premises into: (i) a portion that is allocated to the building (a reduction to the financing obligation) and; (ii) a portion that is allocated to the land on which the building was constructed. the portion of the lease obligations allocated to the land is treated as an operating lease that commenced in 2013. the financing obligation is considered a long-term finance lease obligation and is recorded to long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. at the end of the lease term, the carrying value of the building asset and the remaining financing obligation are expected to be equal, at which time we may either surrender the leased asset as settlement of the remaining financing obligation or extend the initial term of the lease for the continued use of the asset. in the years ended december 31 2016, 2015, and 2014, the company recorded $7 million, $4 million, and $0 million of interest expense, respectively, $3 million, $2 million, and $0 million of depreciation expense, respectively, and $2 million, $1 million, $1 million, of rent expense in general and administrative expense on our consolidated statements of operations, respectively, related to the premises. additional united states and international locations we also lease an aggregate of approximately 465,000 square feet at approximately 40 other locations across north america, europe and asia pacific, in cities such as, new york, boston, london, sydney, barcelona, paris, and beijing, primarily for our sales offices, subsidiary headquarters, and international management teams, pursuant to leases with various expiration dates, with the latest expiring in june 2027. as of december 31, 2016 , future minimum commitments under our corporate headquarters lease and other non-cancelable operating leases for office space with terms of more than one year and contractual sublease income were as follows: year corporate headquarters lease (1) other operating leases sublease income total lease commitments (net of sublease income) (in millions) 2017 $ 9 $ 17 $ (1 ) $ 25 2018 9 17 (1 ) 25 2019 9 18 (1 ) 26 2020 9 17 26 2021 10 16 26 thereafter 87 33 120 total minimum lease payments $ 133 $ 118 $ (3 ) $ 248 (1) amount includes an $84 million financing obligation, which we have recorded in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2016, related to our corporate headquarters lease. letters of credit as of december 31, 2016, we have issued unused letters of credit totaling $3 million, related to our property leases, which includes $1 million delivered to the landlord of our corporate headquarters as security deposit, which amount is subject to increase under certain circumstances. 110 legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, we are parties to regulatory and legal matters arising out of our operations. these matters may involve claims involving alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights (including patent infringement), defamation, taxes, regulatory compliance, privacy issues and other claims. periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. we provide disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both of these conditions if there is a reasonable probability that a loss may have been incurred and whether such loss is reasonably estimable. we base accruals made on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, the company does not believe that the final disposition of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the business. however, the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from our estimates. finally, there may be claims or actions pending or threatened against us of which we are currently not aware and the ultimate disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on us. income taxes we are also under audit by the irs and various other domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to income tax matters. we have reserved for potential adjustments to our provision for income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period for which that determination is made. additionally, we earn an increasing portion of our income, and accumulate a greater portion of cash flows, in foreign jurisdictions which we consider indefinitely reinvested. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates and incremental cash tax payments. in addition, there have been proposals to amend u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact the manner in which u.s. companies are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation will pass, if enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our u.s. tax expense and cash flows. see note 10 income taxes above for further information on potential contingencies surrounding income taxes. note 14: employee benefit plans retirement savings plan the tripadvisor retirement savings plan (the 401(k) plan ), qualifies under section 401(k) of the internal revenue code. the 401(k) plan allows participating employees, most of our u.s. employees, to make contributions of a specified percentage of their eligible compensation. participating employees may contribute up to 50% of their eligible salary on a pre-tax basis, but not more than statutory limits. employee-participants age 50 and over may also contribute an additional amount of their salary on a pre-tax tax basis up to the irs catch-up provision limit, or catch-up contributions. employees may also contribute into the 401(k) plan on an after-tax basis up to an annual maximum of 10%. the 401(k) plan has an automatic enrollment feature at 6% pre-tax. we match 50% of the first 6% of employee contributions to the plan for a maximum employer contribution of 3% of a participant's eligible earnings. the catch up contributions , are not eligible for employer matching contributions. the matching contributions portion of an employee's account, vests after two years of service. the plan also permits certain after-tax roth 401(k) contributions. additionally, at the end of the 401(k) plan year, we make a discretionary matching contribution to eligible participants. this additional discretionary matching employer contribution referred to as true up is limited to match only contributions up to 3% of eligible compensation. we also have various defined contribution plans for our international employees. our contribution to the 401(k) plan and our international defined contribution plans was $9 million, $7 million, and $5 million for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and recorded to our consolidated statements of operations, respectively, for those years. 111 tripadvisor, inc. deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors the company also has a deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (the plan ). under the plan, eligible directors who defer their directors' fees may elect to have such deferred fees (i) applied to the purchase of share units, representing the number of shares of our common stock that could have been purchased on the date such fees would otherwise be payable, or (ii) credited to a cash fund. the cash fund will be credited with interest at an annual rate equal to the weighted average prime or base lending rate of a financial institution selected in accordance with the terms of the plan and applicable law. upon termination of service as a director of tripadvisor, a director will receive (i) with respect to share units, such number of shares of our common stock as the share units represent, and (ii) with respect to the cash fund, a cash payment. payments upon termination will be made in either one lump sum or up to five annual installments, as elected by the eligible director at the time of the deferral election. under the 2011 incentive plan, 100,000 shares of tripadvisor common stock are available for issuance to non-employee directors. from the inception of the plan through december 31, 2016, a total of 1,662 shares have been reserved for such purpose. note 15: stockholders' equity preferred stock in addition to common stock, we are authorized to issue up to 100 million preferred shares, with $ 0.001 par value per share, with terms determined by our board of directors, without further action by our stockholders. at december 31, 2016, no preferred shares had been issued. common stock and class b common stock our authorized common stock consists of 1.6 billion shares of common stock with par value of $0.001 per share, and 400 million shares of class b common stock with par value of $0.001 per share. both classes of common stock qualify for and share equally in dividends, if declared by our board of directors. common stock is entitled to one vote per share and class b common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share on most matters. holders of tripadvisor common stock, acting as a single class, are entitled to elect a number of directors equal to 25% percent of the total number of directors, rounded up to the next whole number, which was two directors as of december 31, 2016. class b common stockholders may, at any time, convert their shares into common stock, on a one for one share basis. upon conversion, the class b common stock is retired and is not available for reissue. in the event of liquidation, dissolution, distribution of assets or winding-up of tripadvisor the holders of both classes of common stock have equal rights to receive all the assets of tripadvisor after the rights of the holders of the preferred stock have been satisfied. there were 134,706,467 and 131,310,980 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, respectively, at december 31, 2016 and 12,799,999 shares of class b common stock issued and outstanding at december 31, 2016. accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) accumulated other comprehensive loss is primarily comprised of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments, as follows for the periods presented: december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (in millions) cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments (1) $ (77 ) $ (63 ) total accumulated other comprehensive loss (2) $ (77 ) $ (63 ) (1) we consider our foreign subsidiary earnings indefinitely reinvested; therefore; deferred taxes are not provided on foreign currency translation adjustments. 112 (2) our accumulated net unrealized gain (loss) on available for sale securities was not material as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015. treasury stock on february 15, 2013, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of $250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we repurchased 2,002,356 shares of outstanding common stock under the share repurchase program at an average cost of $52.35 per share. during the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, we did not repurchase any shares of outstanding common stock under the share repurchase program. as of december 31, 2016, we have repurchased a total of 4,123,065 shares of outstanding common stock under the share repurchase program at an average cost of $60.63 per share and have completed our share repurchase program authorized by our board of directors. in december 2015, we issued 801,042 treasury shares to the foundation in settlement of all future pledge obligations. refer to note 17 segment and geographic information , for a discussion of this transaction. we have 3,395,487 treasury shares remaining as of december 31, 2016 with an aggregate cost of $197 million. dividends during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, our board of directors did not declare any dividends on our outstanding common stock and do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. note 16: related party transactions relationship between expedia and tripadvisor upon consummation of the spin-off, expedia was considered a related party under gaap based on a number of factors, including, among others, common ownership of our shares and those of expedia. however, we no longer consider expedia a related party. for purposes of governing certain of the ongoing relationships between us and expedia at and after the spin-off, and to provide for an orderly transition, we and expedia entered into various agreements at the time of the spin-off, which tripadvisor has satisfied its obligations. however, tripadvisor continues to be subject to certain post-spin obligations under the tax sharing agreement. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. the full text of the tax sharing agreement is incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k as exhibit 10.2. refer to note 10 income taxes above for information regarding the status of completed and ongoing irs audits of our consolidated income tax returns with expedia to date. relationship between liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. and tripadvisor we consider liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. ( ltrip ) a related party. as of december 31, 2016, ltrip beneficially owned 18,159,752 shares of our common stock and 12,799,999 shares of our class b common stock, which shares constituted 13.8% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 21.5% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b 113 common stock is generally entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 56.4% of our voting power. refer to note 1 organization and business description above, which describes the evolution of our relationship with ltrip. we had no related party transactions with ltrip during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 or 2014. note 17: segment and geographic information segment information our reporting structure includes two reportable segments: hotel and non-hotel. in the first quarter of 2016, we renamed our other reportable segment non-hotel. this change had no effect on our consolidated financial statements or to previously reported segment information, as there was no change in the composition of our operating or reportable segments. hotel our hotel segment includes revenue generated from the following sources: click-based advertising and transaction revenue. our largest source of hotel segment revenue is generated from click-based advertising on tripadvisor-branded websites, which is primarily comprised of contextually-relevant booking links to our partners' sites. our click-based advertising partners are predominantly online travel agencies, or otas, and direct suppliers in the hotel product category. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc , basis, with payments from advertisers determined by the number of users who click on a link multiplied by the price that partner is willing to pay for that click, or hotel shopper lead. cpc rates are determined in a dynamic, competitive auction process that enables our partners to use our proprietary, automated bidding system to submit cpc bids to have their hotel rates and availability listed on our site. transaction revenue is generated from our instant booking feature, which enables the merchant of record, generally an ota or hotel partner, to pay a commission to tripadvisor for a user that completes a hotel reservation on our website. display-based and subscription-based advertising revenue. advertising partners can promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner through a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites. our display-based advertising clients are predominately direct suppliers of hotels, airlines and cruises, as well as destination marketing organizations. we also accept display advertising from otas and attractions, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. subscription-based advertising is offered to hotels, b&amp;bs and other specialty lodging properties. this advertising product is sold for a flat fee and enables subscribers to list, for a contracted period of time, a website url, email address and phone number on our tripadvisor-branded websites, as well as to post special offers for travelers. other hotel revenue. our other hotel revenue primarily includes revenue from non-tripadvisor branded websites, such as smartertravel.com, independenttraveler.com, and bookingbuddy.com, which includes click-based advertising revenue, display-based advertising revenue, hotel room reservations sold through these websites, and advertising revenue from making cruise reservations available for price comparison and booking. non-hotel our non-hotel segment consists of the aggregation of three operating segments, our attractions, restaurants and vacation rentals businesses. attractions. we provide information and services for users to research and book activities and attractions in popular travel destinations through our dedicated attractions business, viator. we generate revenue by charging the operators a commission for each transaction we facilitate through our online reservation systems. in addition to its 114 consumer-direct business, viator also powers activity and attractions booking capabilities to its affiliate partners, including some of the world's top airlines, hotel chains and online and offline travel agencies. viator's bookable inventory is available on www.viator.com as well as tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile applications . restaurants. through our restaurant reservations business the fork we provide information and services for users to research and book restaurants. the fork is an online restaurant booking platform operating on a number of sites (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl, www.besttables.com, www.dimmi.com.au , and www.en.couverts.nl), with a network of restaurant partners primarily across europe and australia. the fork generates revenue by charging our restaurant partners a fee for each restaurant guest, or seated diner, that we facilitate through our online reservation systems. the fork also provides flexible online booking and a premium data and analytics tool, for which the restaurant owner pays a subscription fee. the fork's bookable inventory is also available on tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile applications. vacation rentals . we provide information and services for users to research and book vacation and short-term rental properties, including full home rentals, condominiums, villas, beach rentals, cabins and cottages. the vacation rentals business generates revenue by offering individual property owners and property managers, the ability to list their properties on our websites and mobile applications through a free-to-list, commission-based option, and to a lesser extent, an annual subscription-based fee structure. these properties are listed on a number of platforms, including www.flipkey.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com , www.niumba.com, and www.vacationhomerentals.com , as well as on our tripadvisor-branded websites. our operating segments are determined based on how our chief operating decision maker manages our business, regularly assesses information and evaluates performance for operating decision-making purposes, including allocation of resources. the chief operating decision maker for the company is our chief executive officer. our chief operating decision maker is also our hotel segment manager. each non-hotel operating segment has a segment manager who is directly accountable to and maintains regular contact with our chief operating decision maker to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the segment. adjusted ebitda is our segment profit measure and a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate the operating performance of our business and on which internal budgets and forecasts are based and approved. in particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted ebitda can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. accordingly, we believe that adjusted ebitda provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. we define adjusted ebitda as net income (loss) plus: (1) provision for income taxes; (2) other income (expense), net; (3) depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal use software and website development; (4) amortization of intangible assets; (5) stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations; (6) goodwill, long-lived asset and intangible asset impairments; and (7) non-recurring expenses and income 115 the following tables present our segment information for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 , and includes a reconciliation of adjusted ebitda to net income. we record depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations, other income (expense), net, other non-recurring expenses and income, net, and income taxes, which are excluded from segment operating performance, in corporate and unallocated. in addition, we do not report our assets, capital expenditures and related depreciation expense by segment as our chief operating decision maker does not evaluate operating segments using this information. we also do not regularly provide such information by segment to our chief operating decision maker. our consolidated general and administrative expenses, excluding stock-based compensation costs, are shared by all operating segments. each operating segment receives an allocated charge based on the segment's percentage of the company's total personnel costs . year ended december 31, 2016 hotel non-hotel corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,190 $ 290 $ $ 1,480 adjusted ebitda (1) 380 (28 ) 352 depreciation (69 ) (69 ) amortization of intangible assets (32 ) (32 ) stock-based compensation (85 ) (85 ) operating income 166 other expense, net (15 ) income before income taxes 151 provision for income taxes (31 ) net income $ 120 year ended december 31, 2015 hotel non-hotel corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,263 $ 229 $ $ 1,492 adjusted ebitda (1) 472 (6 ) 466 depreciation (57 ) (57 ) amortization of intangible assets (36 ) (36 ) stock-based compensation (72 ) (72 ) non-cash charitable contribution (2) (67 ) (67 ) other non-recurring expenses (2 ) (2 ) operating income 232 other income, net 7 income before income taxes 239 provision for income taxes (41 ) net income $ 198 116 year ended december 31, 2014 hotel non-hotel corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,135 $ 111 $ $ 1,246 adjusted ebitda (1)(3) 472 (4 ) 468 depreciation (47 ) (47 ) amortization of intangible assets (18 ) (18 ) stock-based compensation (63 ) (63 ) operating income 340 other expense, net (18 ) income before income taxes 322 provision for income taxes (96 ) net income $ 226 (1) includes allocated general and administrative expenses in our hotel segment of $80 million, $85 million and $87 million; and in our non-hotel segment of $38 million, $28 million and $18 million for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. (2) during the fourth quarter of 2015, we incurred an expense in the amount of $67 million to reflect a non-cash contribution to the tripadvisor charitable foundation (the foundation ), which was recorded to general and administrative expense in our consolidated statement of operations. tripadvisor had historically funded 2% of its annual operating income before amortization and stock-based compensation. tripadvisor's pledge agreement provided for an immediate satisfaction of all future annual contributions, by paying an amount equal to eight multiplied by tripadvisor's prior year contribution to the foundation. tripadvisor exercised this right under its pledge agreement in december 2015. we settled this obligation in treasury shares based on the fair value of our common stock on the date the treasury shares were issued to the foundation and therefore given the use of stock to settle the obligation, the amount has been excluded from adjusted ebitda. tripadvisor does not expect to make any future contributions to the foundation. (3) hotel segment adjusted ebitda includes charitable contributions to the foundation which were funded in cash of $8 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. revenue and geographic information in the first quarter of 2016 we began providing additional disclosure on our revenue sources within our hotel segment, which are tripadvisor-branded click-based and transaction revenue, tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription revenue; and other hotel revenue, which along with our non-hotel revenue source comprise our products. in conjunction with providing these additional revenue disclosures, we will no longer provide our historically reported revenue disclosure of click-based advertising, display-based advertising, and subscription, transaction and other revenues. this change had no effect on our consolidated financial statements in any period or with the composition of our operating or reportable segments. the following table presents revenue by source for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) tripadvisor-branded click-based and transaction $ 750 $ 837 $ 764 tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription 282 272 233 other hotel revenue 158 154 138 non-hotel revenue 290 229 111 total revenue $ 1,480 $ 1,492 $ 1,246 117 the following table presents revenue by geographic area, the united states, the united kingdom and all other countries, based on the geographic location of our websites for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) revenue united states $ 799 $ 739 $ 593 united kingdom 210 215 191 all other countries 471 538 462 total revenue $ 1,480 $ 1,492 $ 1,246 the following table presents property and equipment, net for the united states and all other countries based on the geographic location of the assets for the periods presented: december 31, 2016 2015 (in millions) property and equipment, net united states $ 222 $ 217 all other countries 38 30 total $ 260 $ 247 note 18: interest income and other, net the following table presents the detail of interest income and other, net, for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) net loss, realized and unrealized, on foreign currency exchange and foreign currency derivative contracts and other, net $ (4 ) $ (4 ) $ (10 ) interest income 1 1 1 gain on sale of business (1) 20 total $ (3 ) $ 17 $ (9 ) (1) see note 3 acquisitions and dispositions for information regarding our gain on sale of business in 2015. 118 note 19: quarterly financial information (unaudited) the following table presents selected unaudited financial information for the eight quarters in the period ended december 31, 2016. the results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of future quarterly results and, accordingly, period to period comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. three months ended march 31 (3) june 30 (3) september 30 december 31 (in millions, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2016 revenue $ 352 $ 391 $ 421 $ 316 operating income 42 47 66 10 net income 29 34 55 1 basic earnings per share (1) $ 0.20 $ 0.23 $ 0.38 $ 0.01 diluted earnings per share (1) $ 0.20 $ 0.23 $ 0.37 $ 0.01 year ended december 31, 2015 revenue $ 363 $ 405 $ 415 $ 309 operating income (loss) (2) 90 79 88 (25 ) net income 63 58 74 3 basic earnings per share (1) $ 0.44 $ 0.40 $ 0.51 $ 0.02 diluted earnings per share (1) $ 0.43 $ 0.40 $ 0.51 $ 0.02 (1) earnings per share is computed independently for each of the quarters presented. therefore, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share may not equal the total computed for the year. (2) during the fourth quarter of 2015, we recognized an incremental $59 million charge over the third quarter of 2015, related to a non-cash charitable contribution recorded to general and administrative expense on our consolidated statement of operations. refer to note 17 segments and geographic information for a discussion of this charitable contribution. (3) in the third quarter of 2016, the company early adopted asu 2016-09, compensation stock compensation (topic 718): improvements to employee share-based payment accounting. refer to note 2 significant accounting policies for the impact of the adoption of this guidance on the first and second quarters of 2016. note 20: subsequent events on january 25, 2017, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of $250 million of our shares of common stock under a new share repurchase program. the repurchase program has no expiration but may be suspended or terminated by the board of directors at any time. the executive committee of our board of directors will determine the price, timing, amount and method of such repurchases based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors, and any shares repurchased will be in compliance with applicable legal requirements, at prices determined to be attractive and in the best interests of both the company and its stockholders. in january 2017, as part of the company's irs audit with expedia, we received notices of proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2009 and 2010 tax years. refer to note 10 income taxes for a discussion of this matter. 119 ite m 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a . controls and procedures evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures as of december 31, 2016, our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act. based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer concluded that, as of december 31, 2016, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the exchange act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the securities and exchange commission's, or the sec's, rules and forms, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. changes in internal control over financial reporting there were no changes to our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended december 31, 2016 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. management's report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rule 13a-15(f) of the exchange act. internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. under the supervision and with the participation of the company's management, including the chief executive officer and president and the chief financial officer, the company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management evaluated the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016. pursuant to exchange act rule 13a-15(d) or 15d-15(d), management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2016, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. management has reviewed its assessment with the audit committee. kpmg llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016, as stated in their report which is included below. limitations on effectiveness of controls and procedures management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. 120 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders tripadvisor, inc.: we have audited tripadvisor, inc.'s (the company) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). tripadvisor, inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, tripadvisor, inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2016, and our report dated february 17, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp boston, massachusetts february 17, 2017 121 item 9b . other information none. part iii item 10 . directors, executive officers and corporate governance the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2017 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2016. item 11 . executive compensation the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2017 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2016. item 12 . security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2017 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2016. item 13 . certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2017 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2016. item 14 . principal accounting fees and services the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2017 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2016. 122 part iv item 15 . exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) the following is filed as part of this annual report on form 10-k: 1. consolidated financial statements : the consolidated financial statements and report of independent registered public accounting firms required by this item are included in part ii,risk factors 10 "risk factors". moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. we caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. we expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on form 10-q for future periods and current reports on form 8-k as we file them with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or the sec, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through current reports on form 8-k or otherwise. 1 pa rt i item 1. business overview tripadvisor is an online travel company and our mission is to help people around the world to plan, book and experience the perfect trip. we seek to achieve our mission by providing users and travel partners a global platform about destinations, accommodations, activities and attractions, and restaurants that includes rich user-generated content, price comparison tools and online reservation and related services. tripadvisor, inc., by and through its subsidiaries, owns and operates a portfolio of leading online travel brands. our flagship brand, tripadvisor, is the world's largest travel site based on monthly unique visitors, with 455 million average monthly unique visitors in our seasonal peak during the year ended december 31, 2017, according to our internal log files. our tripadvisor-branded websites include tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the tripadvisor website in 48 markets and 28 languages worldwide. tripadvisor features approximately 600 million reviews and opinions on approximately 7.5 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do including approximately 1.2 million hotels, inns, b&amp;bs and specialty lodging, 750,000 vacation rentals, 4.6 million restaurants and 915,000 activities and attractions worldwide. we also enable users to compare prices and/or book a number of these travel experiences on either a tripadvisor site or mobile app, or on the site or app of one of our travel partners. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we manage and operate the following 20 other travel media brands, connected by the common goal of providing users the most comprehensive travel-planning and trip-taking resources in the travel industry: www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.citymaps.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl, and www.dimmi.com.au), www.gateguru.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.housetrip.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.smartertravel.com, www.tingo.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and www.viator.com. our industry and market opportunity we operate in the global travel industry, focusing exclusively on online travel activity and the online advertising market. according to phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, global travel spending is expected to be greater than $1.6 trillion in 2018. online penetration of global travel bookings currently is estimated to be less than 50%, however, travel bookings continue to move online as consumers around the world gain access to the internet, including broadband; more users continue to access the internet via mobile devices; and global tourism activity continues to increase, driven by middle class and economic growth in some parts of the world. in addition, the internet provides greater access to travel research and booking capabilities than offline methods. given the ongoing consumer trends around online travel media consumption and online travel commerce, we believe travel partners will continue to allocate greater percentages of their marketing budgets to online channels, as they seek to grow their businesses. our business model our businesses help to match demand users who seek to discover, research, price compare and book the best travel experiences with supply our travel partners who provide travel accommodations, travel experiences and travel services, worldwide. users we serve users through our websites and apps and focus on content, selection, price, and convenience. tripadvisor features approximately 600 million user-generated reviews and opinions across a broad base of global 2 travel-related businesses, including approximat ely 1.2 million hotels, inns, b&amp;bs and specialty lodging, 750,000 vacation rentals, 4.6 million restaurants and 915,000 activities and attractions worldwide. our content and the strong global brand we have created since our founding in 2000 are primary drivers of not only attracting the world's largest travel audience of 455 million unique monthly visitors but also influencing a significant amount of travel commerce. we are focused on creating the best online experience in travel planning and booking, m aking it easier for users to research destinations and experiences, to read and contribute user-generated content, compare destinations and businesses based on quality, price and availability, and to complete bookings powered by our travel partners. travel partners we strive to give users more choice and to help users find the best experiences and the best deals possible and we design our websites to enable our travel partners to be discovered, to advertise and to sell their services. we facilitate transactions between users and travel partners in a number of ways, including by sending referrals to our partners websites, facilitating bookings on behalf of our partners, by serving as the merchant of record as is often the case in our attractions and vacation rentals businesses and by offering advertising placements on our websites and mobile apps. segments and products we manage our business in two reportable segments: hotel and non-hotel. we continue to derive a significant majority of our revenue from our hotel segment, which accounted for 77%, 80%, and 85%, of our consolidated revenue in the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. the hotel segment includes revenue generated from the following sources: tripadvisor-branded click-based and transaction revenue. our largest source of hotel segment revenue is generated from click-based advertising on tripadvisor-branded websites, which is primarily comprised of contextually-relevant booking links to our travel partners' sites. our click-based advertising travel partners are predominantly online travel agencies, or otas, and direct suppliers in the hotel product category. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc , basis, with payments from advertisers determined by the number of users who click on a link multiplied by the price that partner is willing to pay for that click, or hotel shopper lead. cpc rates are determined in a dynamic, competitive auction process, or metasearch auction, that enables our partners to use our proprietary, automated bidding system to submit cpc bids to have their hotel rates and availability listed on our site. transaction revenue is generated from our instant booking feature, which enables the merchant of record, generally an ota or hotel partner, to pay a commission to tripadvisor for a user that completes a hotel reservation via our website. tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription revenue. travel partners can promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner through a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites. our display-based advertising clients are predominantly direct suppliers of hotels, airlines and cruises, as well as destination marketing organizations. we also sell display-based advertising to otas and other travel-related businesses, and to advertisers from non-travel categories. display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. in addition, we offer subscription-based advertising to hotels, b&amp;bs and other specialty lodging properties. subscription advertising is predominantly sold for a flat fee and enables subscribers to enhance their listing, for a contracted period of time, on our tripadvisor-branded websites, including by posting special offers for travelers. other hotel revenue. our other hotel revenue primarily includes revenue from non-tripadvisor branded websites, such as www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, and www.onetime.com, which includes click-based advertising revenue, display-based advertising revenue, hotel room reservations sold through the websites and advertising revenue from making cruise reservations available for price comparison and booking. 3 in recent years, a significant percentage of our user traffic as well as an increasing percentage of our consolidated revenue has come from non-hotel products attractions, restaurants and vacation rentals. these businesses generate revenue in our non-hotel segment, which accounted for 23%, 20%, and 15% of o ur consolidated revenue in the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. attractions. we provide information and services for users to research, book, and experience activities and attractions in popular travel destinations both through viator, our dedicated attractions business, and on our tripadvisor website and applications. we primarily generate commissions for each transaction we facilitate through our online reservation systems. in addition to its consumer-direct business, viator also powers activity and attractions booking capabilities for its affiliate partners, including some of the world's top airlines, hotel chains and online and offline travel agencies. we enable users to book approximately 83,000 activities and attractions, via third-party suppliers, which are available on viator-branded websites and mobile applications and on tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile applications. restaurants. we provide information and services for users to research and book restaurants in popular travel destinations through our dedicated restaurant reservations business, thefork, and on our tripadvisor website and applications. thefork is an online restaurant booking platform operating on a number of websites (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl and www.dimmi.com.au), with a network of restaurant partners located primarily across europe and australia. we generate reservation revenues that are paid by restaurants for diners seated through thefork's online reservation systems, and generate subscription fees for our online booking and marketing analytics tools provided by thefork and by tripadvisor. we enable users to book approximately 46,000 restaurants, which are available on www.thefork.com and on tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile applications. vacation rentals. we provide information and services for users to research and book vacation and short-term rental properties, including full home rentals, condominiums, villas, beach rentals, cabins and cottages. the vacation rentals business generates revenue primarily by offering individual property owners and property managers the ability to list their properties on our websites and mobile applications thereby connecting homeowners with travelers through a free-to-list, commission-based option and, to a lesser extent, by an annual subscription-based fee structure. these properties are listed on www.flipkey.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com, www.niumba.com, and www.vacationhomerentals.com, and on our tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile applications. our long-term growth strategy we seek to achieve our mission of helping people around the world plan, book and experience the perfect trip by: leveraging our user-generated content and global brand to attract users to our websites and applications; providing users with the best user experience throughout all phases of the travel journey; deepening our partnerships with travel partners, by providing them with a global platform of advertising opportunities to generate qualified leads and bookings; and investing in technology, product development, marketing, and other strategic areas that we believe can improve our long-term business prospects. drive user engagement with our platform. since our founding, the tripadvisor brand has become a globally-recognized travel brand, one that is synonymous with travel reviews and research and increasingly finding the best prices and booking. we believe that our user-generated content and our brand have enabled us to build a large, highly engaged and loyal community of travelers who view tripadvisor as a valuable resource to help them discover, plan and, book their travel experiences, and for millions of users, tripadvisor gives them an interactive platform to share their travel experiences. we seek to amplify our global brand and raise user awareness for and engagement with our expanded product offerings as we aim to attract users to our websites and applications through various channels, including domain direct and various online and offline marketing channels, including search engines through search engine optimization and search engine marketing, and recently, through television brand advertising. deliver the best user experience possible on our platform. we believe that giving users more value throughout their tripadvisor experience is key to our future success. to accomplish this, we have 4 made and will continue to make product improvements in order to provide a more enjoyable and engaging end-to-end user experience throughout all phases of the travel journey from inspiration and discovery, to researching, price shopping and booking, to in-destination activities and places to eat, and, finally, to sharing the details of these travel experiences on tripadvisor. these enhancements include having grown the number of hotels, inns, b&amp;bs and speci alty lodging, vacation rentals, restaurants, activities and attractions listed on our platform to approximately 7.5 million worldwide as of december 31, 2017. in addition to listings and content, we have provided users more options to price compare and boo k their travel experiences. during 2017, we launched a more engaging hotel shopping experience that focused on helping hotel shoppers find the best prices on tripadvisor websites and applications. in order to better serve travelers needs when they are in-d estination, we have continued to rapidly expand our bookable supply in attractions and restaurants. we believe that our continued focus on delivering an increasingly more robust user experience will ultimately result in more repeat usage on our platform, m ore value for our partners, and greater monetization for our business. we seek to quickly identify what users need to conduct their travel research and booking and to deliver product enhancements quickly. deepen relationships with our travel partners. we are a global platform consisting of listing and advertising opportunities that help generate impressions, brand awareness, qualified leads and bookings for travel partners. as of december 31, 2017, tripadvisor had approximately 1.2 million hotels, inns, b&amp;bs and specialty lodging, 915,000 activities and attractions, 4.6 million restaurants, and 750,000 vacation rentals on its website. we believe that continuing to grow the number of listings and bookable supply, especially in our in-destination attractions and restaurants businesses, will enable tripadvisor to not only delight users in more moments during more trips, but also help partners drive transactions for their business. we are also increasingly providing business-to-business services that are designed to help our partners grow their business. for example, tripadvisor's business advantage and premium for restaurants offer hoteliers and restauranteurs, affordable marketing and business analytics tools, respectively, to help them attract customers and more effectively manage their business pages on tripadvisor. invest in technology, product, marketing and other strategic areas. continuous product testing and speed to market are two of our most important priorities, as they enable us to create a richer user experience. we operate on a regular product release cycle, where releases contain new product features for our websites and mobile applications. for example, innovating and improving our mobile phone offerings are key priorities since mobile phone adoption continues to scale and consumers increasingly conduct more internet searches and commerce on these devices. during the year ended december 31, 2017, more than half of our average monthly unique visitors came from mobile phones, growing nearly 30% year-over-year, according to our internal log files. we anticipate that the growth rate in mobile phone monthly unique visitors will continue to exceed the growth rate of our overall monthly unique visitors, resulting in an increased proportion of users continuing to use their mobile phones to access the full range of services available on our websites and applications. we are investing significant resources to improve the features, functionality, engagement, and commercialization of our travel products on our mobile websites and applications. marketing we seek to amplify our global brand and raise user awareness and engagement for our expanded product offerings as we aim to attract users to our websites and applications through various channels, including domain direct and various online and offline marketing channels, including search engines (primarily google), social media, and in more recent years, through television brand advertising. both our performance advertising expense and brand advertising expense have increased in recent years. during 2017, our total advertising expense was approximately $629 million, primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily google), social media, as well as offline marketing, primarily television advertising, as part of our ongoing initiative to attract users to our websites and applications when they are looking to find the best hotel deals before they are ready to book. we intend to continue a strategy of promoting brand awareness through both online and offline advertising efforts, including by expanding brand campaigns into additional markets. 5 competition we compete in rapidly evolving and competitive markets. we face competition for content, users, advertisers, online travel search and price comparison services also known in the industry as hotel metasearch, and online reservations. in the competition to attract users to our platform, we rely on our ability to acquire traffic through offline brand recognition and brand-direct efforts such as online search, email and television. these marketing strategies can be impacted by competitive site content, changes to our website architecture and page designs, changes to search engine ranking algorithms, updates in competitor advertising strategies, or changes to display ordering in search engine results such as preferred placement for internal products offered by search engines. we compete with different types of companies in the various markets and geographies we participate in, including large and small companies in the travel space as well as broader service providers. more specifically: in our hotel segment, we both partner with, and face competition from otas (including expedia, inc. and the priceline group, inc. and many of their respective subsidiaries and operating companies); hotel metasearch providers (including trivago, a subsidiary of expedia, kayak, a subsidiary of priceline, hotelscombined and ctrip.com international, ltd); large online search, social media, and marketplace platforms and companies (including google, facebook, microsoft's bing, yahoo, baidu, alibaba, and amazon); traditional offline travel agencies; and global hotel chains seeking to promote direct bookings. in our non-hotel segment, our attractions business competes with both traditional and online travel agencies, online travel service providers, wholesalers, and individual tour operators. our restaurants business competes with other online restaurant reservation services, such as yelp and opentable (a subsidiary of priceline), and local or regional providers. our vacation rentals business competes with companies focused on alternative lodging and shared accommodations, including airbnb and homeaway (a subsidiary of expedia) and booking.com (a subsidiary of priceline). as the industry continues to shift towards online travel services and the technology supporting it continues to evolve, we anticipate that the existing competitive landscape will continue to change, new competitors may emerge, and industry consolidation may continue. commercial relationships we have a number of commercial relationships that are important to the success of our business. although these relationships are memorialized in agreements, many of these agreements are for limited terms or are terminable at will or on short notice. as a result, we work hard to ensure the mutual success of these relationships. we have commercial relationships with the majority of the world's leading otas, as well as a variety of other travel partners pursuant to which these companies primarily purchase traveler leads from us, generally on a click-based advertising basis. for the year ended december 31, 2017, our two most significant travel partners were expedia and priceline, including certain of their respective brands. for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, expedia (and its subsidiaries) and priceline (and its subsidiaries), each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and together accounted for approximately 43%, 46% and 46% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. nearly all of this concentration of revenue is recorded in our hotel segment for these reporting periods. operations and technology we have assembled a team of highly skilled software engineers, computer scientists, data scientists, network engineers, and systems engineers whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas, including a wide variety of open source operating systems, databases, languages, analytics, networking, scalable web architecture, operations, and warehousing technologies. we make significant investments in product and feature development, data management, personalization technologies, scalable infrastructures, networking, data warehousing, and search engine technologies. our systems infrastructure, web and database servers for tripadvisor-branded websites are housed at two geographically separate facilities and have multiple communication links as well as continuous monitoring and 6 engineering support. each facility is fully self-sufficient and operational with i ts own hardware, networking, software, and content, and is structured in an active/passive, fully redundant configuration. substantially all of our software components, data, and content are replicated in multiple datacenters and development centers, as we ll as being backed up at offsite locations. our systems are monitored and protected though multiple layers of security. several of our individual subsidiaries and businesses, including viator, have their own data infrastructure and technology teams. intellectual property our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology and trade secrets, is an important component of our business. we rely on our intellectual property rights in our content, proprietary technology, software code, ratings indexes, databases of reviews and forum content. we have acquired some of our intellectual property rights through licenses and content agreements with third parties and these arrangements may place restrictions on the use of our intellectual property. we protect our intellectual property by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions, as well as on international, national, state and common law rights. we protect our brands by pursuing the trademark registration of our core brands, as appropriate, maintaining our trademark portfolio, securing contractual trademark rights protection when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. we also register copyrights and domain names as deemed appropriate. additionally, we protect our trademarks, domain names and copyrights with the use of intellectual property licenses and an enforcement program. we have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future inventions, as circumstances may warrant. however, many patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us. government regulation we are subject to a number of united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet, many of which are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. these includes laws and regulations regarding user privacy, libel, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, taxation, online payment services, competition and protection of minors. in particular, we are subject to united states federal and state and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. united states federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. in addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations is often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate. in addition, we provide advertising data and information and conduct marketing activities that are subject to united states federal and state consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices, domestically and internationally. the united states and european union have begun to adopt legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online editorial and user-generated content, data privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, and liability for third-party activities. it is impossible to accurately predict whether new taxes or regulations will be imposed on our services, and whether or how we might be affected. increased regulation of the internet could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operational results. we are subject to laws that require protection of user privacy and user data. in our processing of reservations, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data in the united states, europe and asia. this data is increasingly subject to laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the european union through the introduction of the general data protection regulation, or gdpr. the enactment, interpretation and application of these laws is in a state of flux, and the interpretation and application of such laws may vary from country to country. 7 corporate history, equity ownership and voting control tripadvisor was co-founded in february 2000 by stephen kaufer, our current chief executive officer and president. in april 2004, tripadvisor was acquired by iac/interactivecorp, or iac. in august 2005, iac spun-off its portfolio of travel brands, including tripadvisor, into a separate newly-formed delaware corporation called expedia, inc., or expedia. on december 20, 2011 expedia completed a spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly-traded delaware corporation. we refer to this second spin-off transaction as the spin-off. following the spin-off, on december 21, 2011, tripadvisor began trading on the nasdaq global select market, or nasdaq, as an independent public company under the trading symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates. as a result, liberty beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip. simultaneously, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. we refer to this transaction as the liberty spin-off . as a result of the liberty spin-off, effective august 27, 2014, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor. as a result of these transactions, as of december 31, 2017, ltrip beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock, which constitute 14.4% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 22.3% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock generally is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 57.5% of our voting power. financial information about segments and geographic information our reporting structure includes two reportable segments: hotel and non-hotel. our non-hotel reportable segment consists of three operating segments, which includes our attractions, restaurants and vacation rentals businesses. the segments are determined based on how the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information and evaluates performance for operating decision-making purposes, including allocation of resources. financial information related to our two reportable segments and geographic information required herein is contained in note 17 segment and geographic information , in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. employees as of december 31, 2017, we had 3,228 employees. of these employees, approximately 51% were based in the united states. we believe we have good relationships with our employees, including relationships with employees represented by international works councils or other similar organizations. seasonality traveler expenditures in the global travel market tend to follow a seasonal pattern. as such, expenditures by travel partners/advertisers to market to potential travelers and, thereby, our financial performance, or revenue and profits, tend to be seasonal as well. as a result, our financial performance tends to be seasonally highest in the second and third quarters of a year, as it is a key period for leisure travel research and trip-taking, which includes the seasonal peak in traveler hotel and vacation rental stays, and tours and attractions taken, compared to the first and fourth quarters which represent seasonal low points. further significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends. 8 additional information we maintain a corporate website at ir.tripadvisor.com. except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the sec. we make available, free of charge through the investor relations section of our website, the reports that we file or furnish with the sec, press releases, public conference calls and certain webcasts. investors and others should be aware that we use our investor relations website ( http://ir.tripadvisor.com/investor-relations ) to announce material financial information to our investors as well as communicate with the public about our company, our results of operations and other information. we post our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers, senior financial officers and directors, on our corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. we intend to disclose any waivers of the code of ethics for our executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, on our corporate website. 9 ite m 1a. risk factors you should consider carefully the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report as they may impact our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations or financial condition. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to continue to increase visitors to our websites and mobile apps and to cost-effectively convert these visitors into revenue-generating users, our revenue, financial results and business could be harmed. our long term success depends on our continued ability to maintain and increase the overall number of visitors flowing through our platforms in a cost effective manner and to engage users throughout the travel planning, booking and trip-taking phases. the primary asset that we use to attract visitors to our websites and convert these visitors into engaged users and bookers is our ability to collect or create, organize and distribute high-quality, commercially valuable content and products that meet users' specific interests. our traffic and user engagement could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to increased competition, reduced consumer awareness of our brands, declines or inefficiencies in traffic acquisition, and macroeconomic conditions. certain of our competitors have advertising campaigns expressly designed to drive consumer traffic directly to their websites, and these campaigns may negatively impact traffic to our site. there can be no assurances that we will continue to provide content and products in a manner that meets rapidly changing consumer demand that encourages users to book on our platform and that is cost-effective. any failure to obtain and manage content and products in a cost-effective manner that will engage users, or any failure to provide content and products that are perceived as useful, reliable and trustworthy, could adversely affect user experiences and their repeat behavior, reduce traffic to our websites and negatively impact our business and financial performance. we rely on internet search engines and application marketplaces to drive traffic to our platform, certain providers of which offer products and services that compete directly with our products. if links to our website and applications are not displayed prominently, traffic to our platform could decline and our business would be negatively affected. we rely heavily on internet search engines, such as google, to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords (what is also known as search engine marketing, or sem) as well as through free, or organic, search (what is also known as search engine optimization, or seo). the number of users we attract from search engines to our platform is due in large part to how and where information from and links to our website are displayed on search engine results pages. the display, including rankings, of unpaid search results can be effected by a number of factors, many of which are not in our control and may change frequently. search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user's search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. in addition, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our websites to place lower in organic search query results. if a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our websites or those of our partners, or if competitive dynamics impact the cost or effectiveness of seo or sem in a negative manner, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected. furthermore, our failure to successfully manage our seo and sem strategies could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic. in addition, to the extent that google or other leading search or metasearch engines that have a significant presence in our key markets, disintermediate otas or travel content providers, whether by offering their own comprehensive travel planning or shopping capabilities, or by referring leads to suppliers, other favored partners or themselves directly, there could be a negative effect on search results and traffic to our site, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. 10 we also rely on application marketplaces, such as apple's app store and google's play, to drive downloads of our applications. in the future, apple, google or other marketplace operators may make changes to their marketplaces that make access to our products more difficult. for example, google has entered various aspects of the online travel market, including by establishing a flight metasearch product and a hotel metasearch product as well as reservation functionality. our applications may receive unfavorable treatment compared to the promotion and placem ent of competing applications, such as the order in which they appear within marketplaces. similarly, if problems arise in our relationships with providers of application marketplaces, traffic to our site and our user growth could be harmed. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from advertising and any significant reduction in spending by advertisers or redirections of advertising spend could harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based and subscription-based advertising. we enter into master advertising contracts with our advertising partners. the agreement terms are generally limited to legal matters, with campaign details governed by insertion orders, and most of these contracts can be terminated by our partners at will or on short notice. our ability to grow advertising revenue with our existing or new advertising partners is dependent in large part on our ability to generate revenue for them relative to other alternatives. advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in such advertising does not generate sales leads, customers, bookings, or revenue and profit on a cost-effective basis. our ability to provide value to our advertising partners depends on a number of factors, including acceptance of online advertising versus more traditional forms of advertising or more effective models, competitiveness of our products, traffic quality, perception of our platform, availability and accuracy of analytics and measurement solutions to demonstrate our value, and macroeconomic conditions, whether in the advertising industry generally, among specific types of marketers or within particular geographies. we cannot guarantee that our current advertisers will fulfill their obligations under existing contracts, continue to advertise beyond the terms of existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts with us. click-based advertising revenue accounts for the majority of our advertising revenue. our cpc pricing for click-based advertising depends, in part, on competition between advertisers. if our large advertisers become less competitive with each other, merge with each other or with our competitors, focus more on per-click profit than on traffic volume, or are able to reduce cpcs, this could have an adverse impact on our click-based advertising revenue which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a relatively small number of significant advertising partners and any reduction in spending by or loss of these partners could seriously harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of advertising partners and rely significantly on our relationships. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2017, our two most significant advertising partners, expedia and priceline (and their subsidiaries), accounted for a combined 43% of total revenue. while we enter into master advertising contracts with our partners, as discussed above, and most of these contracts can be terminated by our partners at will or on short notice. if any of our significant advertisers were to cease or significantly curtail advertising on our websites, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenue over a relatively short period of time which would have a material impact on our business. our dedication to making the user experience our highest priority may cause us to prioritize rapid innovation and user experience over short-term financial results. we strive to create the best experience for our users, providing them with the information, research and tools to enable them to plan, book, and experience the perfect trip. we believe that in doing so we will increase our rates of conversion, revenue per hotel shopper and, ultimately, our financial performance over the long-term. we have taken actions in the past and may continue to make decisions in the future that have the effect of reducing our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions benefit the overall user experience. for example, we may introduce changes to existing products or new products that direct users away from formats or use cases where we have a proven means of monetization. in addition, our approach of putting users first may negatively impact our 11 relationship with existing or prospective advertisers. these actions and practices could result in a loss of advertisers, which in turn could harm our results of operations. the short-term reductions in revenue or profitability could be more severe than we anticipate or these decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and engageme nt, our relationships with users and advertisers, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. our business depends on a strong brand and any failure to maintain, protect and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to retain and expand our base of users and advertisers, as well as increase the frequency with which users utilize our products and services. we believe that the strength of our brands (particularly the tripadvisor brand) has contributed significantly to our success. we also believe that maintaining, protecting and enhancing our brands is critical to expanding our base of users, increasing the frequency with which users utilize our solutions and attracting advertisers and business partners. our ability to maintain and protect our brand depends, in part, on our ability to maintain consumer trust in our products and in the quality and integrity of the user content and other information found on our platform. we believe that consumers must trust the integrity of our content and that they must believe that our content is reliable as well as useful. if consumers do not view our reviews to be useful and reliable, they may seek other sources to obtain the information they are looking for and may not return to our platform as often in the future, or at all. this would negatively impact our ability to attract retain users and advertisers and the frequency with which they use our platform. we dedicate significant resources to these goals, primarily through our computer algorithms to identify inappropriate or deceptive content removing content from our website that violates our terms of service and, in certain cases, taking legal action against businesses that we believe engage in deceptive practices. media, legislative, or regulatory scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, content, advertising, and other issues may adversely affect our reputation and brands. negative publicity about our company, including our content, technology, business practices or strategic plans, could diminish our reputation and confidence in our brand, thereby negatively affecting the use of our products. for example, certain media outlets have reported that we have improperly filtered or screened reviews, that we have not properly verified reviews, or that we manipulate reviews, ranking and ratings in favor of our advertisers against non-advertisers. we expend significant resources to ensure the integrity of our reviews and to ensure that the most relevant reviews are available to our users; we do not establish rankings and ratings in favor of our advertisers. nevertheless, our reputation and brand, the traffic to our platform and our business may suffer from negative publicity about our company or if users otherwise perceive that our content is manipulated or biased. in addition, regulatory inquiries or investigations require management time and attention and could result in further negative publicity, regardless of their merits or ultimate outcomes. in addition, unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our practices relating to privacy and data protection, product changes, competitive pressures, litigation or regulatory activity, could adversely affect our reputation with our users and our advertisers. such negative publicity also could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement, and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. we continue to invest significant time and effort towards educating users about our brand and our product offerings and there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful. in an effort to enhance our brand we invest significantly in brand marketing including, but not limited to, television advertising. we expect these investments to continue, and even increase, as a result of a variety of factors, including relatively high levels of advertising spending from competitors, the increasing costs of supporting multiple brands, expansion into new geographies, product positioning where our brands are less well known, and the continued emergence and relative traffic share growth of search engines as destination sites for travelers. we expect to continue our television advertising campaign and to adjust our marketing efforts and spend among the different marketing channels, in each case as we think appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment in the different segments and businesses in which we operate. such efforts may not maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective or as efficient as they have been historically. if we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands or to generate demand in a cost-effective manner, 12 it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. in addition, t here are no assurances that these actions will have a positive impact on our marketing efficiencies or operating margins or when the financial benefit expected to result from these efforts will exceed the costs of such efforts. furthermore, ome of our current and potential competitors have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may also be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses to enable them to compete more effectively with us. consumer adoption and use of mobile phone devices creates new challenges and, if we are unable to operate effectively on mobile phone devices, our business may be adversely affected. the number of people who access the internet through mobile phones continues to increase and we anticipate that the rate of use of these devices will continue to grow. a significant percentage of our traffic comes from users accessing our sites on mobile phones and we expect this percentage to continue to increase. in order to attract and retain engaged users of our mobile platform, the mobile products and services we introduce must be compelling. in addition, the mobile phones continue to monetize at a significantly lower rate than desktops and tablets and advertising opportunities are more limited on mobile phone devices. given device sizes and technical limitations of these devices, mobile phone consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their hotel, restaurant and attractions activity. in addition, as new devices and platforms are released, users may begin consuming content in a manner that is more difficult to monetize. to address these growing user demands, we continue to extend our platform to develop and improve upon our mobile applications and monetization strategies. if we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile phone offerings and websites optimized for mobile phone devices and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile phone offerings are not used by consumers, our future growth and results of operations could be negatively impacted. declines or disruptions in the economy in general and travel industry in particular could adversely affect our businesses and financial performance. our businesses and financial performance are affected by the health of the global economy generally as well as the travel industry and leisure travel in particular. sales of travel services tend to decline or grow more slowly during economic downturns and recessions when consumers engage in less discretionary spending, are concerned about unemployment or economic weakness, have reduced access to credit or experience other concerns that reduce their ability or willingness to travel. the global economy may be adversely impacted by unforeseen events beyond our control including incidents of actual or threatened terrorism, regional hostilities or instability, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters, political instability and health concerns (including epidemics or pandemics), defaults on government debt, significant increases in fuel and energy costs, tax increases and other matters that could reduce discretionary spending, tightening of credit markets and further declines in consumer confidence. decreased travel expenditures could reduce the demand for our services and have a negative impact on our business, working capital and financial performance. in addition, the uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. for example, the united kingdom's referendum to exit the european union, known as brexit, could adversely affect european and global economic or market conditions, could contribute to instability in global financial markets and may have a negative effect on the travel industry and our business. 13 we operate in an increasingly competitive global environment and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our market share and harm our financial perf ormance. we compete in rapidly evolving and competitive markets. we face competition for content, users, advertisers, online travel search and price comparison services, or what is known in the industry as hotel metasearch, and online reservations. in the competition to attract users to our platform, we rely on our ability to acquire traffic through offline brand recognition and brand-direct efforts such as seo, sem, email and television. these marketing strategies can be impacted by competitive site content, changes to our website architecture and page designs, changes to search engine ranking algorithms, updates in competitor advertising strategies, or changes to display ordering in search engine results such as preferred placement for internal products offered by search engines. we also compete with different types of companies in the various markets and geographies where we participate, including large and small companies in the travel space as well as broader service providers. more specifically: in our hotel segment, we face competition from otas (including expedia, inc. and the priceline group inc. and certain of their respective subsidiaries), hotel metasearch providers (including trivago, kayak, ctrip.com international, ltd., and hotelscombined), large online search, social media, and marketplace companies (including google, microsoft bing, yahoo, baidu, facebook, alibaba, and amazon), traditional offline travel agencies, and global hotel chains seeking to promote direct bookings. we also face competition from different companies in each of the operating segments in our non-hotel segment. our attractions business competes with traditional travel agencies, wholesalers, and individual tour operators as well as airbnb and similar websites that have added other travel services such as tours and activities. our restaurants business competes with other online restaurant reservation services, such as seatme (owned by yelp) and opentable (a subsidiary of priceline). our vacation rentals business competes with companies focused on alternative lodging, shared accommodations and online accommodation searches, including airbnb, homeaway (a subsidiary of expedia) and booking.com (a subsidiary of priceline). many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources compared to us and have expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating internet traffic as well as large client bases. they also have the ability to leverage other aspects of their business to enable them to compete more effectively against us. in addition, many of our competitors, including online search companies, continue to expand their voice and artificial intelligence capabilities, which may provide them with a competitive advantage in travel. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current, emerging and future competitors or on platforms that may emerge, or provide differentiated products and services to our traveler base. certain of the companies we do business with, including some of our click-based advertising partners, are also our competitors. the consolidation of our competitors and partners, including expedia (through its acquisitions of orbitz, travelocity, and homeaway) and priceline (through its acquisitions of kayak and opentable), may affect our relative competitiveness and our partner relationships. competition and consolidation could result in higher traffic acquisition costs, reduced margins on our advertising services, loss of market share, reduced customer traffic to our websites and reduced advertising by travel companies on our websites. as the industry shifts towards online travel services and the technology supporting it continues to evolve, including platforms such as mobile phone and tablet computing devices, competition is likely to intensify. competition in our industry may result in pricing pressure, loss of market share or decreased member engagement, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we rely on information technology to operate our business and remain competitive, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our businesses. we depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems for, among other things, website and mobile apps, supplier connectivity, communications, reservations, payment processing, procurement, customer 14 service and fraud prevention. our future success depends on our ability to continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while at the same time maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. we may not be able to maintain or replace our existing systems or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. we may not be successful, or as successful as our competitors, in developing technologies and systems that operate effectively across multiple devices and platforms in a way that is appealing to our users. in addition, the emergence of alternative platforms such as mobile phone and tablet computing devices and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology. new developments in other areas could also make it easier for competition to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. technology changes, including new devices, services and home assistants, such as amazon's alexa voice and google home, and developing technologies, such as machine learning and artificial intelligence, could negatively impact our business. if we do not continue to innovate and provide tools and services that are useful to travelers, we may not remain competitive, and our business and financial performance could suffer. our success depends in part on continued innovation to provide features and services that make our platform compelling to travelers. our competitors are continually developing innovations in online travel-related services and features. as a result, we are continually working to improve our business model and user experience in order to drive user traffic and conversion rates. we can give no assurances that the changes we make will yield the benefits we expect and will not have unintended or adverse impacts that we did not anticipate. if we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services and quality features that travelers want to use, existing users may become dissatisfied and use competitors' offerings and we may be unable to attract additional users, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we are dependent upon the quality of traffic in our network to provide value to online advertisers, and any failure in our quality control could have a material adverse effect on the value of our websites to our advertisers and adversely affect our revenue. we use technology and processes to monitor the quality of the internet traffic that we deliver to online advertisers and have identified metrics to demonstrate the quality of that traffic. these metrics are used to not only identify the value of advertising on our website but also to identify low quality clicks such as non-human processes, including robots, spiders or other software; the mechanical automation of clicking; and other types of invalid clicks or click fraud. even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low-quality traffic, or traffic that online advertisers deem to be invalid, will be delivered to such online advertisers. as a result, we may be required to credit amounts owed to us by our advertisers. furthermore, low-quality or invalid traffic may be detrimental to our relationships with advertisers, and could adversely affect our advertising pricing and revenue. we rely on assumptions and estimates and data to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. we believe that certain metrics are key to our business, including but not limited to unique visitors, hotel shoppers, and revenue per hotel shopper. as both the industry in which we operate and our business continue to evolve, so too might the metrics by which we evaluate our business. while the calculation of these metrics is based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates, our internal tools are not independently verified by a third party and have a number of limitations and, furthermore, our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time. for example, a single person may have multiple accounts or browse the internet on multiple browsers or devices, some users may restrict our ability to accurately identify them across visits, some mobile applications automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no user action, and we are not always able to capture user information on all of our platforms. as such, the calculations of our unique visitors may not accurately reflect the number of people actually visiting our platforms. we continue to improve upon our tools and methodologies to capture data and believe that our current metrics are accurate; however, the improvement of our tools and methodologies could cause inconsistency between current data and previously reported data, which could confuse 15 investors or lead to questions about the integrity of our data. also if the internal tools we use to track these metrics under-count or over-count performance or co ntain algorithm or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. in addition, historically, certain metrics were calculated by independent third parties. accordingly readers should not place undue reliance on these numbers. the loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior corporate management and other key employees. in particular, the contributions of stephen kaufer, our co-founder, chief executive and president, are critical to our overall management. we cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of these individuals, and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. in addition, competition remains intense for well-qualified employees in certain aspects of our business, including software engineers, developers, product management and development personnel, and other technology professionals. our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. as a global company, we aim to attract quality employees from all over the world, so any restrictions on travel for professional or personal purposes, such as those put in place in the united states in early 2017, may cause significant disruption to our businesses or negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees on a global basis. if we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining or motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. we may be subject to claims that we violated intellectual property rights of others and these claims can be extremely costly to defend and could require us to pay significant damages and limit our ability to operate. certain companies in the internet and technology industries that own patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of those intellectual property rights in order to extract value from technology companies, such as royalties in connection with grants of licenses. we have received in the past, and expect to receive in the future notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties' intellectual property rights. any intellectual property claim against us, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to settle or litigate and could divert management's attention and other resources. these claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology or content found to be in violation of another party's rights. we might be required or may opt to seek a license for rights to intellectual property held by others, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, or content, which could require significant effort and expense and make us less competitive in the relevant market. any of these results could harm our business and financial performance. 16 acquisitions, investments, significant commercial arrangements and/or new business strategies could disrupt our ongoing business and present new cha llenges and risks. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and expand user engagement in order to grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and advertiser demands and competitive pressures. as a result, we have acquired, invested in and/or entered into significant commercial arrangements with a number of new businesses in the past and our future growth may depend, in part, on future acquisitions, investments, commercial arrangements and/or changes in business strategies, any of which could be material to our financial conditions and results of operations. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the following: expected and unexpected costs incurred in identifying and pursuing these endeavors, and performing due diligence on potential targets that may or may not be successful; use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding these endeavors that may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, retirement of outstanding indebtedness and/or dividend payments; amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences; diversion of management's attention or other resources from our existing business; difficulties and expenses in integrating the operations, products, technology, privacy protection systems, information systems or personnel of the company, including the assimilation of corporate cultures; difficulties in implementing and retaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; the assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the acquired company, including costs associated with litigation, cybersecurity risks assumed, and other claims relating to the acquired company; failure of any company which we have acquired, in which we have invested, or with which we have a commercial arrangement, to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows or to retain key management or employees; failure to generate adequate returns on acquisitions and investments; with respect to minority investments, limited management or operational control and reputational risk, which risk is heightened if the controlling person in such case has business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours; entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience and increased complexity in our business; impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from acquisitions; and adverse market reaction to acquisitions. we have recently invested, and may in the future invest, in privately-held companies and these investments are currently accounted for under the cost method accounting. such investments are inherently risky in that such companies are typically at an early stage of development, may have no or limited revenues, may not be or may never become profitable, may not be able to secure additional funding or their technologies, services or products may not be successfully developed or introduced into the market. further, our ability to liquidate any such investments is typically dependent upon some liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition, since no public market exists for such securities. valuations of such privately-held companies are inherently complex and uncertain due to the lack of liquid market for the company's securities. moreover, we could lose the full amount of any of our investments and any impairment of our investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 we cannot assure you that these in vestments will be successful or that such endeavors will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible or that we will achieve these benefits within a reasonable peri od of time. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand, results of operations and business could be harmed. over the years, we have experienced rapid growth in some of our business, including through acquisitions of other businesses and in new international markets. we continue to make substantial investments in our technology, product and sales and marketing organizations. this growth places substantial demands on management and our operational infrastructure. in addition, as our business matures, we make periodic changes and adjustments to our organization in response to various internal and external considerations, including market opportunities, the competitive landscape, new and enhanced products and acquisitions. these changes may result in a temporary lack of focus or productivity or otherwise impact our business. to manage our growth, we may need to improve our operational, financial and management systems and processes which may require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources. as we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, including employees in international markets, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. if we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and business. we are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. we are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations and other proceedings involving competition, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, free speech issues, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, short-term and vacation rentals and other matters. in addition, our businesses face intellectual property litigation that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell products and services. such claims, suits, government investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, injunctions or damage awards and other factors. determining reserves for our pending litigation or other legal proceedings is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. these proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or other field action, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are a global company that operates in many different jurisdictions and these operations expose us to additional risks, which risks increase as our business continues to expand. we operate in a number of jurisdictions both inside and outside of the united states and continue to expand our operations both domestically and internationally. many regions have different economic conditions, languages, currencies, consumer expectations, levels of consumer acceptance and use of the internet for commerce, legislation, regulatory environments (including labors laws and customs), tax laws and levels of political stability. we are subject to associated risks typical of global businesses, including, but not limited to, the following: compliance with additional laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act (including the european union's general data protection regulation, or gdpr), data 18 privacy requirements, labor and employment law, laws regarding advertisements and promotions and anti-competition regulations; diminished ability to legally enforce contractual rights; increased risk and limits on enforceability of intellectual property rights; restrictions on repatriation of cash as well as restrictions on investments in operations in certain countries; financial risk arising from transactions in multiple currencies as well as foreign currency exchange restrictions; difficulties in managing staff and operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences; uncertainty regarding liability for services, content and intellectual property rights, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of precedent; economic or political instability; and threatened or actual acts of terrorism. a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the recently enacted u.s. tax legislation commonly referred to as the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 tax act ). foreign governments may enact tax laws in response to the 2017 tax act that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. the 2017 tax act resulted in significant changes to the u.s. corporate income tax system. the 2017 tax act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in u.s. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the 2017 tax act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation of analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. the u.s. treasury department, the irs and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 tax act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. as we complete our analysis of the 2017 tax act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. additionally, we continue to accumulate positive cash flows in foreign jurisdictions, which we consider indefinitely reinvested, although we will continue to evaluate the impact of the 2017 tax act on our capital deployment within and outside the u.s. the repatriation of such funds for use in the united states, including for corporate purposes such as acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or debt refinancings, may result in additional u.s. income tax expense and higher cost for such capital. a failure to comply with current laws, rules and regulations or changes to such laws, rules and regulations and other legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business or financial performance. our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business, including those relating to the internet and online commerce, internet advertising, consumer protection, data security and privacy, travel and vacation rental licensing and listing requirements and tax. in some cases, these laws continue to evolve. for example, there is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce that may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, data security, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of products and services. in addition, enforcement authorities continue to rely on their authority under existing consumer protection laws to take action 19 against companies relating to data privacy and security practices. the growth and development of online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws and more aggressive enforcement efforts, which may imp ose additional burdens on online businesses generally. further, our vacation rentals business has been and continues to be subject to regulatory developments that affect the vacation rental industry and the ability of competitors like us to list those vacation rentals online. for example, some states and local jurisdictions have fair housing or other laws governing whether and how properties may be rented, which they assert apply to vacation rentals. in addition, many homeowners, condominium and neighborhood associations have adopted or are considering adopting statutes or ordinances that prohibit or restrict property owners and managers from short-term vacation rentals. we also have been subject, and we will likely be subject in the future, to inquiries from time to time from regulatory bodies concerning compliance with consumer protection, competition, tax and travel industry-specific laws and regulations. the failure of our businesses to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and/or proceedings against us by governmental agencies and/or consumers, which if material, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, if such laws and regulations are not enforced equally against other competitors in a particular market, our compliance with such laws may put us a competitive disadvantage vis- -vis competitors who do not comply with such requirements. the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations, or the new interpretation of existing laws, rules and regulations, in each case that restrict or otherwise unfavorably impact the ability or manner in which we provide services could require us to change certain aspects of our business, operations and commercial relationships to ensure compliance, which could decrease demand for services, reduce revenues, increase costs and/or subject the company to additional liabilities. unfavorable changes could decrease demand for products and services, limit marketing methods and capabilities, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. violations of these laws and regulations could result in finds and/or criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees and/or prohibitions on the conduct of our business. we cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected from copying or use by others, including potential competitors. our websites rely on content, brands and technology, much of which is proprietary. we protect our proprietary content, brands and technology by relying on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents and confidentiality agreements. any misappropriation or violation of our rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. even with these precautions, it may be possible for another party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, content or brands without authorization or to develop similar technology, content or brands independently. effective intellectual property protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and expenses and the costs of defending our rights. in addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our services are made available, and policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our business or ability to compete. we cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. furthermore, we may need to go to court or other tribunals or administrative bodies in order to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. these proceedings might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. our failure to protect our intellectual property in a cost-effective or effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to protect our technology, content and brands. we currently license from third parties and incorporate the technologies and content into our websites. as we continue to introduce new services that incorporate new technologies and content, we may be required to license additional technology, or content. we cannot be sure that such technology or content will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 20 our processing, storage and use of personal information and other data subjects us to additional laws and regulations and failure to comply with those laws and regulations could give r ise to liabilities. we collect, process, store and transmit data, including personal information, for our users. as a result, we are subject to a variety of laws in the united states and abroad regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other consumer data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. in addition, the security of data when engaging in electronic commerce is essential to maintaining consumer and travel service provider confidences in our services. the regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. the u.s. congress and federal agencies, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, are reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection and use of information concerning consumer behavior on the internet. various u.s. courts are also considering the applicability of existing federal and state statutes, including computer trespass and wiretapping laws, to the collection and exchange of information online. in addition, we are subject to gdpr, a new data protection legal framework adopted by the european union effective in may 2018. these data protection laws and regulations are intended to protect the privacy and security of personal data, including credit card information. implementation of and compliance with these laws and regulations may be more costly or take longer than we anticipate, or could otherwise affect our business operations. we strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or privacy-related legal obligations, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements that could harm our reputation and cause our customers and members to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, brand, market share and results of operations. we have acquired a number of companies over the years and may continue to do so in the future. while we make significant efforts to address any information technology security issues with respect to our acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate the acquired businesses. we are subject to payments-related risks and failure to manage those risks may subject us to fines, penalties and additional costs and could have a negative impact on our business. we accept payments, both from consumers and advertising partners and suppliers, using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, direct debit from a customer's bank account, and invoicing. for existing and future payment options we offer to our customers, we may become subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations to implement enhanced authentication processes that could result in significant costs and reduce the ease of use of our payments products), as well as fraud. for certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. we rely on third parties to provide certain payment methods and payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards and debit cards. in each case, our business could be disrupted, if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. we are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card issuing banks' costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and/or lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments. we are also subject to a number of other laws and regulations relating to payments, money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security, and electronic fund transfers. if we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, or forced to cease providing certain services. 21 any significant system disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third par ties that we utilize, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyberattacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data or theft of intellectual property, could harm our business. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and service our users and partners is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties we utilize in our operations. significant interruptions, outages, delays or security breaches in internal systems, systems of third parties that we rely upon, would impair our ability to process transactions or display content and significantly harm our business. a party, whether internal or external, that is able to circumvent our security systems could misappropriate user information or proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. in the past, we have experienced cyberattacks, such as computer viruses, security intrusions, denial-of-service or bot type attacks, that have made portions of our websites unavailable for short periods of time as well as allowed unauthorized access of our systems and data. we also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the internet. much of our business is conducted with third party marketing affiliates or, more recently, through business partners powering our instant booking feature. a security breach at such third party could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. in addition, such third parties may not comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to liability. we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to investigate and address problems caused by breaches. reductions in website availability could cause a loss of substantial business volume during the occurrence of any such incident. because the techniques used to sabotage security change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage to reputation, exposure to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability due to regulatory penalties and sanctions. media coverage of data breaches has escalated, in part because of the increased number of enforcement actions, investigations and lawsuits. as this focus and attention on privacy and data protection increases, we also risk exposure to potential liabilities and costs resulting from the compliance with, or any failure to comply with applicable legal requirements, conflicts among these legal requirements or differences in approaches to privacy and security. security breaches could also cause travelers and potential users to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. failure to adequately protect against attacks or intrusions, whether for our own systems or systems of vendors, could expose us to security breaches that could have an adverse impact on financial performance. although we have put measures in place to protect certain portions of our facilities and assets, any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing content and services to users, travelers and/or third parties for a significant period of time. in addition, remediation may be costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such costs. moreover, the costs of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved stability and redundancy may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. the online short-term and vacation rental market is rapidly evolving and if we fail to predict the manner in which the market develops, our business and prospects may suffer. we offer short-term and vacation rental services on our tripadvisor-branded sites as well as through our u.s.-based flipkey and vacation home rentals and european-based holiday lettings and niumba businesses. the short-term and vacation rental market has been and continues to be, subject to regulatory development globally that affects the industry and the ability of companies like us to list these rental properties online. for example, some states and local jurisdictions, both domestically and internationally, have adopted or are considering statutes or ordinances that prohibit property owners and managers from renting certain properties for fewer than 30 consecutive days or otherwise limit their ability to do so, and other states and local jurisdictions may introduce similar regulations. some states and local jurisdictions also have fair housing or other laws governing whether and how properties may be rented, which they assert apply to vacation rentals. many homeowners, condominium and 22 neighborhood associations have adopted rules that prohibit or restrict short-term vacation rentals. many of the fundamental statutes and ordinan ces that impose taxes or other obligations on travel and lodging companies were established before the growth of the internet and e-commerce, which creates a risk of these laws being used in ways not originally intended that could burden property owners an d managers or otherwise harm our business. operating in this dynamic regulatory environment requires significant management attention and financial resources. we cannot assure that our efforts will be successful, and the investment and additional resources required to manage growth will produce the desired levels of revenue or profitability. we may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. we are currently party to a credit agreement with respect to a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility maturing in may 2022, or (as more fully discussed below) the 2015 credit facility . this agreement includes restrictive covenants that may impact the way we manage our business and may limit our ability to secure significant additional financing in the future on favorable terms. our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. there can be no assurance that sufficient financing will be available on desirable or even any terms to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or extraordinary actions or that counterparties in any such financings would honor their contractual commitments. we have indebtedness which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. at december 31, 2017, we have outstanding $230 million in long-term debt. although we subsequently repaid this indebtedness, we continue to have existing credit facilities from which we can borrow significant amounts; as such, we are still subject to risks relating to our indebtedness that include: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; making it more difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; possibly placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms that we find acceptable; and exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our outstanding debt is expected to be subject to variable rates of interest. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our 2015 credit facility allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations; however, there is no assurance that additional financing will be available to us on terms favorable to us, if at all. in addition, if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. 23 our 2015 credit facility provides for various provisions that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants and the failure to comply with their covenants could have a materi al adverse effect on us. we are party to a credit agreement providing for our 2015 credit facility. the agreements that govern the 2015 credit facility contain various covenants, including those that limit our ability to, among other things: incur indebtedness; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; enter into certain asset sale transactions, including partial or full spin-off transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to optimally operate our business. in addition, our 2015 credit facility requires that we meet certain financial tests, including a leverage ratio test. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facility may result in an event of default under the agreements governing such facilities. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the debt incurred thereunder. in addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds (including periodic rollovers of existing borrowings). our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors that could have a material impact on our financial results and could increase the volatility of those results. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. in the event we incur net income in certain jurisdictions but incur losses in other jurisdictions, we generally cannot offset the income from one jurisdiction with the loss from another. this lack of flexibility increases our effective tax rate. furthermore, significant judgment is required to calculate our worldwide provision for income taxes and depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. in the ordinary course of our business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we believe our tax estimates are reasonable. however, we are routinely under audit by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. the taxing authorities of jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences, which would increase our effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. as we operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions, the application of tax laws can also be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by taxing authorities of these jurisdictions. it is not uncommon for taxing authorities of different countries to have conflicting views, for instance, with respect to, among other things, the manner in which the arm's length standard is applied for transfer pricing purposes, or with respect to the valuation of intellectual property. the final determination of audits could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals and could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. the income tax effects of the accounting for share-based compensation may significantly impact our effective tax rate. in periods in which our stock price is higher than the grant price of the share-based compensation awards vesting in that period, we will recognize excess tax benefits that will decrease our effective tax rate. in periods in which our stock price is lower than the grant price of the share-based compensation awards vesting in that period, our effective tax rate will increase. additionally, we continue to accumulate positive cash flows in foreign jurisdictions, which we consider indefinitely reinvested, although we will continue to evaluate the impact of the 2017 tax act on our capital 24 deployment within and outside the u.s . any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates and incremental cash tax payments. changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or the examination of our tax positions, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. however, the tax benefits that we intend to eventually derive could be undermined due to changing tax laws. a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the recently enacted 2017 tax act. foreign governments or u.s. states may enact tax laws in response to the 2017 tax act that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. the 2017 tax act has resulted in significant changes to the u.s. corporate income tax system. the 2017 tax act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in u.s. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the 2017 tax act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation of analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. the u.s. treasury department, the irs and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 tax act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. as we complete our analysis of the 2017 tax act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. in addition, the taxing authorities in the united states and other jurisdictions where we do business regularly examine our income and other tax returns as well as the tax returns of expedia, our former parent. the ultimate outcome of these examinations (including the irs audit described below) cannot be predicted with certainty. should the irs or other taxing authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations, we may be required to record charges to our operations, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. in connection with the spin-off, we could be subject to significant tax liabilities. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia entered into in connection with the spin-off, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. we continue to be responsible for potential tax liabilities in connection with consolidated income tax returns filed with expedia prior to or in connection with the spin-off. by virtue of previously filed consolidated tax returns with expedia, we are currently under an irs audit for the 2009, 2010, and short-period 2011 tax years. in connection with that audit, we received, in january 2017, notices of proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2009 and 2010 tax years, which would result in an increase in our worldwide income tax expense. the proposed adjustments would result in an increase to our worldwide income tax expense in an estimated range totaling $10 million to $14 million for those specific years after consideration of competent authority relief, exclusive of interest and penalties. we are also subject to various ongoing state income tax audits. the outcome of these matters or any other audits could subject us to significant tax liabilities. 25 we are subject to fluctuation in foreign currency exchange risk. we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the united states but report our results in u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly those related to the euro, british pound sterling, and australian dollar. these exposures include, but are not limited to re-measurement of gains and losses from changes in the value of foreign denominated assets and liabilities; translation gains and losses on foreign subsidiary financial results that are translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation; and planning risk related to changes in exchange rates between the time we prepare our annual and quarterly forecasts and when actual results occur. depending on the size of the exposures and the relative movements of exchange rates, if we were to choose not to hedge or were to fail to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial statements and financial condition. as seen in some recent periods, in the event of severe volatility in exchange rates the impact of these exposures can increase, and the impact on results of operations can be more pronounced. in addition, the current environment and the increasingly global nature of our business have made hedging these exposures both more complex. we hedge certain short-term foreign currency exposures with the purchase of forward exchange contracts. these forward exchange contracts only help mitigate the impact of changes in foreign currency rates that occur during the term of the related contract period and carry risks of counter-party failure. there can be no assurance that our forward exchange contracts will have their intended effects. significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can affect consumer travel behavior. volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and its impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. currently is a controlling stockholder. liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip, effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of our stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of our common stock of 25% of the members of our board of directors and matters as to which delaware law requires separate class votes), including but not limited to, corporate transactions such as mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets, the authorization or issuance of new equity or debt securities and determinations with respect to our business direction and policies. our chairman greg maffei, and one of our directors albert rosenthaler also serve as officers and directors of ltrip. ltrip may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders and they may vote in a way with which our other stockholders may not agree or that may be adverse to other stockholders' interests. ltrip is not restricted from investing in other businesses involving or related to our business. ltrip's control of us, as well as the existing provisions of our organizational documents and delaware law, may discourage or prevent a change of control that might otherwise be beneficial, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. we are currently relying on the controlled company exemption under nasdaq stock market listing rules, pursuant to which controlled companies are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements otherwise applicable under nasdaq listing rules. the nasdaq stock market listing rules exempt controlled companies, or companies of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company, from certain corporate governance requirements, including those requirements that: a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. 26 we currently rely on the controlled company exemption for ce rtain of the above requirements. accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other nasdaq-listed companies with respect to corporate governance for so long as we rely on these exemptions from the cor porate governance requirements. if we are unable to successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and our stock price and business may be adversely impacted. as a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. additionally, we are required to disclose in our annual reports on form 10-k our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a registered public accounting firm's attestation report on this assessment. if we are not successful in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, there could be inaccuracies or omissions in the consolidated financial information we are required to file with the sec. additionally, even if there are no inaccuracies or omissions, we could be required to publicly disclose the conclusion of our management that our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. these events could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, adversely impact our stock price, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits that could be costly to resolve and distract management's attention, limit our ability to access the capital markets or cause our stock to be delisted from nasdaq or any other securities exchange on which we are then listed. the market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may face negative pressure. our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility. the market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this section and other factors beyond our control. factors affecting the trading price of our common stock could include: quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; failure to meet market expectations; the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program which could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock; developments in our industry, including changes in governmental regulations; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors related to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or foreign currency exchange fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price. for the year ended december 31, 2017, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on nasdaq was approximately 3.1 million shares. if our existing stockholders or their distributees sell substantial amounts of 27 our common stock in the public market, the market pr ice of the common stock could decrease significantly. the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the trading price of our common stock. in addition, certain stockholders have righ ts, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. if ltrip or some other stockholder sells substan tial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if there is a perception in the public market that ltrip might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. a decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. these provisions include: authorization and issuance of class b common stock that entitles holders to ten votes per share; authorization of the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; prohibiting our stockholders from filling board vacancies or calling special stockholder meetings; and limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders. we are subject to the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. these and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. our exposure to market risk includes our revolving credit facilities, derivative instruments and cash and cash equivalents, short term and long term marketable securities, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables/payables, accounts payable and deferred merchant payables denominated in foreign currencies. we manage our exposure to these risks through established policies and procedures and by assessing the anticipated near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow and market exposures from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. interest rates as of december 31, 2017, our exposure to changes in interest rates relate primarily to our investment portfolio and the outstanding debt under our 2015 credit facility. our interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in u.s. interest rates and libor. changes in interest rates affect the interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value of those securities, as well as the amount of interest we pay on outstanding debt. we currently invest our excess cash in cash deposits at major global banks, money market mutual funds and marketable securities. our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of our current investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. based on our investment positions as of december 31, 2017, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in less than a $1 million decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. as of december 31, 2017, we had $230 million of debt under our 2015 credit facility, which has a variable rate. the variable interest rate on the 2015 credit facility is based on current assumptions, leverage and libor rates. based on our current outstanding debt balance as of december 31, 2017, a 25 basis point change in our interest rates on our 2015 credit facility would result in an increase or decrease to interest expense of less than $1 58 million per annum. we currently do not hedge our interest rate risk; however, we are continually evaluating the interest rate market, and if we become increasingly exposed to potentially vol atile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. we did not experience any material financial impact from changes in interest rates for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 or 2015. foreign currency exchange rates we conduct business in certain international markets, primarily the european union including the united kingdom, singapore and australia. because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign currency exchange rates. some of our foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their respective local currencies other than the u.s. dollar. consequently, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact the translation of foreign financial statements into u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency, or functional currency, into u.s. dollars upon consolidation. if the u.s. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income. similarly, our net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income will decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against local currency. the effect of foreign currency exchange on our business historically has varied from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so, potentially materially. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our overall financials, we performed a sensitivity analysis. a hypothetical 10% decrease of the foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, or strengthening of the u.s. dollar, would generate an unrealized loss of approximately $27 million related to a decrease in our net assets held in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar as of december 31, 2017, which would initially be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on our consolidated balance sheet. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses. we recognize these transactional gains and losses (primarily euro currency transactions) in our consolidated statements of operations and have recorded a foreign currency exchange gain of $1 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, and losses of $6 million for both the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. future net transactional gains and losses are inherently difficult to predict as they are reliant on how the multiple currencies in which we transact fluctuate in relation to the u.s. dollar and other functional currencies, and the relative composition and denomination of current assets and liabilities each period. we currently manage our exposure to foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures. to the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies, as well as, using derivative financial instruments. we use foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage certain short-term foreign currency risk to try and reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. our objective is to hedge only those foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified and that may result in significant impacts to our cash or the consolidated statement of operations. our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures. our foreign currency forward exchange contracts, to date, have principally addressed foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. we have accounted for our derivative instruments to date, which have not been designated as hedges under gaap, as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. we had no outstanding forward currency contracts as of december 31, 2017. as of december 31, 2016, we had $6 million notional value of outstanding forward currency contracts not designated as hedges. these contracts 59 had maturi ties of less than 90 days. the fair value of these derivatives at december 31, 2016 were not material. we recognize gains and losses from our derivative contract in our consolidated statement of operations and have recorded a loss of $1 million for the yea r ended december 31, 2017, and gains of $2 million for both the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. refer to note 6 financial instruments and fair value mea surements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for further detail on our derivative instruments. as we increase our operations in international markets, our exposure to potentially volatile movements in foreign currency exchange rates increases. the economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. these changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our foreign currency risk strategies. 60 ite m 8. financial statements and supplementary data index to financial statements and supplementary data: report of independent registered public accounting firm 62 consolidated statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 201 5 63 consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 201 5 64 consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2017 and 201 6 65 consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 66 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 201 5 67 notes to consolidated financial statements 68 61 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the stockholders and board of directors tripadvisor, inc.: opinion on the consolidated financial statements we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries (the company ) as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended december 31, 2017, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements ). in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended december 31, 2017, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) ( pcaob ), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission, and our report dated february 21, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. basis for opinion these consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. /s/ kpmg llp we have served as the company's auditor since 2014. boston, massachusetts february 21, 2018 62 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of operations (in millions, except per share amounts) year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 revenue $ 1,556 $ 1,480 $ 1,492 costs and expenses: cost of revenue (1) 72 71 58 selling and marketing (2) 849 756 692 technology and content (2) 243 243 207 general and administrative (2) 157 143 210 depreciation 79 69 57 amortization of intangible assets 32 32 36 total costs and expenses 1,432 1,314 1,260 operating income 124 166 232 other income (expense): interest expense (15 ) (12 ) (10 ) interest income and other, net 1 (3 ) 17 total other income (expense), net (14 ) (15 ) 7 income before income taxes 110 151 239 provision for income taxes (129 ) (31 ) (41 ) net income (loss) $ (19 ) $ 120 $ 198 earnings (loss) per share attributable to common stockholders (note 5): basic $ (0.14 ) $ 0.83 $ 1.38 diluted $ (0.14 ) $ 0.82 $ 1.36 weighted average common shares outstanding (note 5): basic 140 145 144 diluted 140 147 146 (1) excludes amortization expense as follows: amortization of acquired technology included in amortization of intangible assets $ 8 $ 7 $ 9 amortization of website development costs included in depreciation 54 46 37 $ 62 $ 53 $ 46 (2) includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: selling and marketing $ 21 $ 20 $ 16 technology and content $ 40 $ 40 $ 28 general and administrative $ 35 $ 25 $ 28 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 63 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions) year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 net income (loss) $ (19 ) $ 120 $ 198 other comprehensive income (loss): foreign currency translation adjustments (1) 35 (14 ) (33 ) reclassification adjustment on sale of business included in total other income (expense), net (note 3) 1 total other comprehensive income (loss) 35 (14 ) (32 ) comprehensive income $ 16 $ 106 $ 166 (1) foreign currency translation adjustments exclude income taxes due to our intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in those operations. refer to note 15 stockholders' equity . the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 64 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated balance sheets (in millions, except number of shares and per share amounts) december 31, december 31, 2017 2016 assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents (note 6) $ 673 $ 612 short-term marketable securities (note 6) 35 118 accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $16 and $9, respectively (note 2) 230 189 income taxes receivable (note 10) 30 - prepaid expenses and other current assets 25 31 total current assets 993 950 long-term marketable securities (note 6) 27 16 property and equipment, net (note 7) 263 260 intangible assets, net (note 8) 142 167 goodwill (note 8) 758 736 deferred income taxes, net (note 10) 16 42 other long-term assets 73 67 total assets $ 2,272 $ 2,238 liabilities and stockholders' equity current liabilities: accounts payable $ 8 $ 14 deferred merchant payables (note 2) 156 128 deferred revenue 60 64 current portion of debt (note 9) 7 80 income taxes payable (note 10) 5 10 accrued expenses and other current liabilities (note 11) 136 127 total current liabilities 372 423 long-term debt (note 9) 230 91 deferred income taxes, net (note 10) 14 12 other long-term liabilities (note 12) 293 210 total liabilities 909 736 commitments and contingencies (note 13) stockholders' equity: (note 15) preferred stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 100,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 0 and 0 common stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 1,600,000,000 shares issued: 135,617,263 and 134,706,467, respectively shares outstanding: 126,142,773 and 131,310,980, respectively class b common stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 400,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 12,799,999 and 12,799,999, respectively additional paid-in capital 926 831 retained earnings 926 945 accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (42 ) (77 ) treasury stock-common stock, at cost, 9,474,490 and 3,395,487 shares, respectively (447 ) (197 ) total stockholders' equity 1,363 1,502 total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 2,272 $ 2,238 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 65 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity (in millions, except number of shares) accumulated additional other class b paid-in retained comprehensive common stock common stock capital earnings (loss) income treasury stock total shares amount shares amount shares amount balance as of december 31, 2014 132,315,465 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 673 $ 628 $ (31 ) (2,194,173 ) $ (145 ) $ 1,125 net income 198 198 other comprehensive loss (32 ) (32 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 1,520,777 12 12 issuance of treasury stock as charitable contribution (note 15) 14 801,042 53 67 tax benefits on equity awards, net 35 35 withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (73 ) (73 ) stock-based compensation 80 80 balance as of december 31, 2015 133,836,242 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 741 $ 826 $ (63 ) (1,393,131 ) $ (92 ) $ 1,412 net income 120 120 cumulative effect adjustment from adoption of new accounting guidance related to stock-based compensation (1 ) (1 ) other comprehensive loss (14 ) (14 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 870,225 7 7 repurchase of common stock (note 15) (2,002,356 ) (105 ) (105 ) withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (15 ) (15 ) stock-based compensation 98 98 balance as of december 31, 2016 134,706,467 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 831 $ 945 $ (77 ) (3,395,487 ) $ (197 ) $ 1,502 net loss (19 ) (19 ) other comprehensive income 35 35 issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 910,796 3 3 repurchase of common stock (note 15) (6,079,003 ) (250 ) (250 ) withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (17 ) (17 ) stock-based compensation 109 109 balance as of december 31, 2017 135,617,263 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 926 $ 926 $ (42 ) (9,474,490 ) $ (447 ) $ 1,363 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 66 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions) year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 operating activities: net income (loss) $ (19 ) $ 120 $ 198 adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development 79 69 57 amortization of intangible assets 32 32 36 stock-based compensation expense (note 4) 96 85 72 non-cash contribution to charitable foundation (note 17) 67 gain on sale of business (note 3) (20 ) deferred tax expense (benefit) 29 (20 ) (37 ) other, net 10 10 9 changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions, other investments and dispositions: accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets (36 ) (24 ) (31 ) accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities - 7 13 deferred merchant payables 14 21 15 income tax receivables/payables, net 38 20 32 deferred revenue (5 ) 1 7 net cash provided by operating activities 238 321 418 investing activities: capital expenditures, including internal-use software and website development (64 ) (72 ) (109 ) acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired (note 3) (43 ) (29 ) proceeds from sale of business, net of cash sold (note 3) 25 purchases of marketable securities (63 ) (166 ) (205 ) sales of marketable securities 105 84 187 maturities of marketable securities 28 32 71 other investing activities, net 2 2 net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 6 (163 ) (58 ) financing activities: repurchase of common stock (note 15) (250 ) (105 ) proceeds from chinese credit facilities 7 4 payments to chinese credit facilities (1 ) (41 ) principal payments on 2011 credit facility (300 ) proceeds from 2015 credit facility, net of financing costs 433 101 287 payments to 2015 credit facility (296 ) (210 ) (90 ) proceeds from 2016 credit facility, net of financing costs 73 payments to 2016 credit facility (73 ) proceeds from exercise of stock options 3 7 12 payment of withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (17 ) (15 ) (73 ) other financing activities, net 12 net cash used in financing activities (200 ) (143 ) (189 ) effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 17 (17 ) (12 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 61 (2 ) 159 cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 612 614 455 cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 673 $ 612 $ 614 supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: cash paid during the period for income taxes, net of refunds $ 62 $ 29 $ 43 cash paid during the period for interest $ 13 $ 10 $ 7 supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities: stock-based compensation capitalized with internal-use software and website development costs $ 13 $ 12 $ 8 capitalization of construction in-process related to build to suit lease $ $ $ 6 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 67 tripadvisor, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements note 1: organization and business description we refer to tripadvisor, inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiaries as tripadvisor, the company, us, we and our in these notes to the consolidated financial statements. on december 20, 2011 expedia, inc. completed a spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly traded delaware corporation. we refer to this transaction as the spin-off. tripadvisor's common stock began trading on the nasdaq as an independent public company on december 21, 2011 under the trading symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates. as a result, liberty beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip. simultaneously, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. we refer to this transaction as the liberty spin-off . as a result of the liberty spin-off, effective august 27, 2014, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor. as a result of these transactions, as of december 31, 2017, ltrip beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock, which constitute 14.4% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 22.3% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock generally is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 57.5% of our voting power. description of business tripadvisor is an online travel company and our mission is to help people around the world to plan, book and experience the perfect trip. we seek to achieve our mission by providing users and travel partners a global platform about destinations, accommodations, activities and attractions, and restaurants that encompasses rich user-generated content, price comparison tools and online reservation and related services. tripadvisor, inc., by and through its subsidiaries, owns and operates a portfolio of leading online travel brands. our flagship brand is tripadvisor. tripadvisor-branded websites include tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the website in 48 markets worldwide and 28 languages worldwide. tripadvisor features approximately 600 million reviews and opinions on approximately 7.5 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do including approximately 1.2 million hotels, inns, b&amp;bs and specialty lodging and 750,000 vacation rentals, 4.6 million restaurants and 915,000 activities and attractions worldwide. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we manage and operate the following 20 other media brands, connected by the common goal of providing users the most comprehensive travel-planning and trip-taking resources in the travel industry: www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.citymaps.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl, and www.dimmi.com.au), www.gateguru.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.housetrip.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.smartertravel.com, www.tingo.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and www.viator.com. 68 seasonality traveler expenditures in the global travel market tend to follow a seasonal pattern. as such, expenditures by travel partners/advertisers to market to potential travelers and, therefore, our financial performance, or revenue and profits, tend to be seasonal as well. as a result, our financial performance tends to be seasonally highest in the second and third quarters of a year, as it is a key period for leisure travel research and trip-taking, which includes the seasonal peak in traveler hotel and vacation rental stays, and tours and attractions taken, compared to the first and fourth quarters which represent seasonal low points. further significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends. note 2: significant accounting policies basis of presentation and consolidation the accompanying consolidated financial statements include tripadvisor, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and entities we control, or in which we have a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary of expected cash profits or losses. all inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. additionally, certain prior period amounts have been reclassified for comparability with the current period presentation. the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( gaap ). we believe that the assumptions underlying our consolidated financial statements are reasonable. however, these consolidated financial statements do not present our future financial position, the results of our future operations and cash flows. one of our subsidiaries that operates in china has variable interests in affiliated entities in china in order to comply with chinese laws and regulations, which restrict foreign investment in internet content provision businesses. although we do not own the capital stock of these chinese affiliates, we consolidate their results as we are the primary beneficiary of the cash losses or profits of these variable interest affiliates and have the power to direct the activity of these affiliates. our variable interest entities' financials were not material for all periods presented. accounting estimates we use estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with gaap. our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of our consolidated financial statements. these estimates and assumptions also affect the reported amount of net income or loss during any period. our actual financial results could differ significantly from these estimates. the significant estimates underlying our consolidated financial statements include: (i) recognition and recoverability of goodwill, definite-lived intangibles and other long-lived assets; and (ii) accounting for income taxes. refer to note 10 - income taxes for further discussion of our significant income tax amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. revenue recognition we recognize revenue from our services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. deferred revenue, which primarily relates to our subscription-based and commission based arrangements, is recorded when payments are received in advance of our performance as required by the underlying agreements. click-based advertising and transaction revenue . click-based revenue is derived primarily from click-through fees charged to our travel partners for traveler leads sent to the travel partners' website. we record revenue from click-through fees in the same period as when the traveler makes the click-through to the travel partners' website. our instant booking transaction model revenue is comprised of commissions earned on all valid instant booking reservations. in a transaction model, our instant booking commission revenue is recorded at the time a traveler books a hotel transaction on our partner's site where we, as facilitator for such booking, do not assume associated cancellation risk. under the other instant booking model, called the consumption model, we assume cancellation risk 69 associate d with booking, and we record that revenue when the traveler's stay at a hotel occurs. we have no post-booking service obligations for all instant booking transactions, regardless of the model chosen. display-based and subscription-based advertising . we recognize display-based advertising revenue ratably over the advertising period or upon delivery of advertising impressions, depending on the terms of the advertising contract. subscription-based advertising revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual period over which service is delivered. attractions . we work with local operators, or merchant partners, to provide travelers with access to tours and activities in popular destinations worldwide, earning a commission for such service. while the merchant of record, we receive cash from the consumer at the time of booking of the destination activity and record these amounts, net of commissions, as deferred merchant payables on our consolidated balance sheet. commission revenue is recorded as deferred revenue at the time of booking and later recognized when the consumer has completed the destination activity. we pay the destination activity operators after the travelers' use. in transactions where we are not the merchant of record, we invoice and receive commissions directly from our merchant partners and record commission revenue when the consumer has completed the destination activity. restaurants. we recognize reservation revenues (or per seated diner fees) on a transaction-by-transaction basis as diners are seated by our restaurant customers. subscription-based revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual period over which the service is delivered. vacation rentals. we generate revenue from customers primarily on either a subscription basis over a fixed-term, or on a commission basis for transactions that are booked on our platform. payments for term-based subscriptions, related to online advertising services for the listing of vacation rental properties for rent, received in advance of services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized ratably to revenue on a straight-line basis over the listing period. our commission revenue is primarily generated on our free-to-list option, in lieu of a pre-paid subscription fee. when a commissionable transaction is booked on our platform, we act as the merchant of record and receive cash from the traveler that includes both our commission, which is recorded as deferred revenue, and the amount due to the property owner, which is recorded to deferred merchant payables on our consolidated balance sheet. we pay the amount due to the property owner and recognize our commission revenue at the time of the traveler's stay. additional revenues are also derived on a pay-per-lead basis, as we provide leads for rental properties to property managers. pay-per-lead revenue is billed and recognized in the period when the leads are delivered to the property managers. cost of revenue cost of revenue consists of expenses that are directly related or closely correlated to revenue generation, including direct costs, such as ad serving fees, flight search fees, credit card fees and other transaction costs, and data center costs. in addition, cost of revenue includes personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation expense and bonuses for certain customer support personnel who are directly involved in revenue generation. selling and marketing selling and marketing expenses primarily consist of direct costs, including traffic generation costs from sem and other online traffic acquisition costs, syndication costs and affiliate program commissions, social media costs, brand advertising, television and other offline advertising, promotions and public relations. in addition, our sales and marketing expenses consist of indirect costs such as personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation expense and bonuses for sales, sales support, customer support and marketing employees. we incur advertising expense, which includes traffic generation costs from sem and other online traffic costs, affiliate program commissions, display advertising, social media, and other online, and offline (including television) advertising expense, promotions and public relations to promote our brands. we expense the costs associated with communicating the advertisements in the period in which the advertisement takes place. we expense the production costs associated with advertisements in the period in which the advertisement first takes place. for the years ended 70 december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded advertising expense of $629 million, $543 million, and $507 million, re spectively, in selling and marketing expense on our consolidated statements of operations. as of both december 31, 2017 and 2016, we had $5 million of prepaid marketing expenses included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated bala nce sheets. we expect to fully expense our prepaid marketing asset of $5 million as of december 31, 2017 to the consolidated statement of operations during 2018. technology and content technology and content expenses consist primarily of personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries and benefits, stock-based compensation expense and bonuses for salaried employees and contractors engaged in the design, development, testing, content support, and maintenance of our websites and mobile apps. other costs include licensing, maintenance expense, computer supplies, telecom costs, content translation costs, and consulting costs. general and administrative general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead costs, including personnel engaged in executive leadership, finance, legal, and human resources, as well as stock-based compensation expense for those same personnel. general and administrative costs also include professional service fees and other fees including audit, legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including bad debt expense, non-income taxes, such as sales, use and other non-income related taxes, and charitable contributions. stock-based compensation stock options. the exercise price for all stock options granted by us to date has been equal to the market price of the underlying shares of common stock at the date of grant. in this regard, when making stock option awards, our practice is to determine the applicable grant date and to specify that the exercise price shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. our stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and typically vest equally over a four-year requisite service period. we amortize the grant-date fair value of our stock option grants as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. the estimated grant-date fair value of stock options is calculated using a black-scholes merton option-pricing model ( black-scholes model ). the black-scholes model incorporates assumptions to fair value stock-based awards, which includes the risk-free rate of return, expected volatility, expected term and expected dividend yield. our risk-free interest rate is based on the rates currently available on zero-coupon u.s. treasury issues, in effect at the time of the grant, whose remaining maturity period most closely approximates the stock option's expected term assumption. our expected volatility is calculated by equally weighting the historical volatility and implied volatility on our own common stock. historical volatility is determined using actual daily price observations of our common stock price over a period equivalent to or approximate to the expected term of our stock option grants to date. implied volatility represents the volatility calculated from the observed prices of our actively traded options on our common stock, with remaining maturities in excess of six months and market prices approximate to the exercise prices of the stock option grant. we estimate our expected term using historical exercise behavior and expected post-vest termination data. our expected dividend yield is zero, as we have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date and do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. restricted stock units. rsus are stock awards that are granted to employees entitling the holder to shares of our common stock as the award vests. rsus are measured at fair value based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock at the date of grant. we amortize the fair value of rsus as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term, which is typically four years on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. performance-based awards. performance-based stock options and rsus vest upon achievement of certain company-based performance conditions and a requisite service period. on the date of grant, the fair value of a 71 performance-based a ward is calculated using the same method as our service based stock options and rsus described above. we then assess whether it is probable that the individual performance targets would be achieved. if assessed as probable, compensation expense will be rec orded for these awards over the estimated performance period. at each reporting period, we will reassess the probability of achieving the performance targets and the performance period required to meet those targets. the estimation of whether the performan ce targets will be achieved and of the performance period required to achieve the targets requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, the cumulative effect on current and prior periods of thos e changes will be recorded in the period estimates are revised, or the change in estimate will be applied prospectively depending on whether the change affects the estimate of total compensation cost to be recognized or merely affects the period over which compensation cost is to be recognized. the ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation expense recognized will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. market-based performance rsus, or market-based rsus, vest upon achievement of specified levels of market conditions. the fair value of our market-based rsus is estimated at the date of grant using a monte-carlo simulation model. the probabilities of the actual number of market-based performance units expected to vest and resultant actual number of shares of common stock expected to be awarded are reflected in the grant date fair values; therefore, the compensation expense for these awards will be recognized assuming the requisite service period is rendered and are not adjusted based on the actual number of awards that ultimately vest. estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive these awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of our original estimates of fair value. the company accounts for forfeitures in the period in which they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. income taxes we record income taxes under the asset and liability method. deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. we determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. we consider all relevant factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as assessing available tax planning strategies. we may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. we classify deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent on our consolidated balance sheet. we record liabilities to address uncertain tax positions we have taken in previously filed tax returns or that we expect to take in a future tax return. the determination for required liabilities is based upon an analysis of each individual tax position, taking into consideration whether it is more likely than not that our tax position, based on technical merits, will be sustained upon examination. cash and cash equivalents our cash consists of cash deposits held in global financial institutions. our cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments, including money market funds, with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase. 72 short-term and long-term marketable securities we classify our marketable debt securities as either short-term or long-term based on each instrument's underlying contractual maturity date and as to whether and when we intend to sell a particular security prior to its maturity date. marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 90 days at the date of purchase and 12 months or less remaining at the balance sheet date will be classified as short-term and marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date will generally be classified as long-term. we classify our marketable equity securities, limited by policy to money market funds and mutual funds, as either a cash equivalent, short-term or long-term based on the nature of each security and its availability for use in current operations. as of december 31, 2017, our marketable securities have been classified and accounted for as available-for-sale, and therefore are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a component of stockholders' equity. fair values are determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. we determine the appropriate classification of our marketable securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate the designations at each balance sheet date. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss and providing liquidity of investments sufficient to meet our operating and capital spending requirements and debt repayments. realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities are determined by specific identification of each security's cost basis. we may sell certain of our marketable securities prior to their stated maturities for strategic reasons including, but not limited to, anticipation of credit deterioration, liquidity, and duration management. the weighted average maturity of our total invested cash shall not exceed 18 months, and no security shall have a final maturity date greater than three years, according to our investment policy. we continually review our available for sale securities to determine whether a decline in fair value below the carrying value is other than temporary. when evaluating an investment for other-than-temporary impairment, we review factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below its cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and our intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell the investment before recovery of the investment's cost basis. once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. if we do not intend to sell the security, but it is probable that we will not collect all amounts due, then only the impairment due to the credit risk would be recognized in earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment would be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts accounts receivable are generally due within 30 days and are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. we record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount. collateral is not required for accounts receivable. for accounts outstanding longer than the contractual payment terms, we determine an allowance by considering a number of factors, including the length of time trade accounts receivable are past due, previous loss history, a specific customer's ability to pay its obligations to us, and the condition of the general economy and industry as a whole. 73 the following table presents the changes in our allowance for doubtful accounts for the periods presented: december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) allowance for doubtful accounts: balance, beginning of period $ 9 $ 6 $ 7 charges (recoveries) to earnings 8 4 3 write-offs, net of recoveries and other adjustments (1 ) (1 ) (4 ) balance, end of period $ 16 $ 9 $ 6 derivative financial instruments our goal in managing our foreign currency exchange risk is to reduce, to the extent practicable, our potential exposure to the changes that exchange rates might have on our earnings, cash flows and financial position. we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. we account for our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. in certain circumstances, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts ( forward contracts ) to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. our derivative instruments, or forward contracts, that the company has entered into to date have not been designated as hedges. derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting must be adjusted to fair value through current income. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of a given subsidiary are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. accordingly, fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward differences. these differences are not expected to be significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which to date, have had maturities at inception of 90 days or less. the net cash received or paid related to our derivative instruments are classified in other investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flow. we had not entered into any cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges as of december 31, 2017. property and equipment, including website and software development costs we record property and equipment at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. we capitalize certain costs incurred during the application development stage related to the development of websites and internal use software when it is probable the project will be completed and the software will be used as intended. capitalized costs include internal and external costs, if direct and incremental, and deemed by management to be significant. we expense costs related to the planning and post-implementation phases of software and website development as these costs are incurred. maintenance and enhancement costs (including those costs in the post-implementation stages) are typically expensed as incurred, unless such costs relate to substantial upgrades and enhancements to the website or software resulting in added functionality, in which case the costs are capitalized. we compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which is three to five years for computer equipment, capitalized software and website development, office furniture and other equipment. we depreciate leasehold improvements using the straight-line method, over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the improvement or the remaining term of the lease. 74 leases we lease office space in many countries around the world under non-cancelable lease agreements. we generally lease our office facilities under operating lease agreements. office facilities subject to an operating lease and the related lease payments are not recorded on our balance sheet. the terms of certain lease agreements provide for rental payments on a graduated basis, however, we recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease period in accordance with gaap. any lease incentives are recognized as reductions of rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. the lease term begins on the date we become legally obligated for the rent payments or when we take possession of the office space, whichever is earlier. we establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under lease arrangements where we are considered the owner for accounting purposes only, or build-to-suit leases, to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance under gaap. if we continue to be the deemed owner, for accounting purposes, the facilities are accounted for as financing obligations. we also establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to return certain of our leased facilities to their original condition for asset retirement obligations. such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated restoration costs and are included in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. our asset retirement obligations were not material as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016, respectively. business combinations we account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting which requires that the tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired and assumed liabilities be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. any excess purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. when determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from customer and supplier relationships, acquired technology and trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. any changes to provisional amounts identified during the measurement period, calculated as if the accounting had been completed as of the acquisition date, are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. goodwill and intangible assets goodwill we assess goodwill, which is not amortized, for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. goodwill is assigned to reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination as of the acquisition date. we evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. once goodwill has been allocated to the reporting units, it no longer retains its identification with a particular acquisition and becomes identified with the reporting unit in its entirety. accordingly, the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is available to support the recoverability of its goodwill. the company has the option to qualitatively assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. in the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we generally first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50%) that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. periodically, we may choose to forgo the initial qualitative assessment and proceed directly to a quantitative analysis to assist in our annual evaluation. when 75 assessing goodwill for impairment, our decision to perform a qualitative impairment assessment for an individual reporting unit in a given year is influenced by a number of factors, such as the size of the reporting unit's goodwill, the significan ce of the excess of the reporting unit's estimated fair value over carrying value at the last quantitative assessment date, and the amount of time in between quantitative fair value assessments and the date of acquisition to establish an updated baseline q uantitative analysis. during a qualitative assessment, if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is m ore likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, we then perform a quantitative assessment and compare the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value. if the carrying value of a reporti ng unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the goodwill impairment is measured using the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the reporting unit, however, any loss recognized cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to tha t reporting unit. in determining the estimated fair values of reporting units in a quantitative goodwill impairment test, we generally use a blend, of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (discounted cash flows model) and the market valuation approach, which we believe compensates for the inherent risks of using either model on a stand-alone basis. the discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of the reporting unit; income tax rates and working capital effects. the market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business and other precedent transactions. our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and/or income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. we believe that the estimated fair values assigned to our reporting units in impairment tests are based on reasonable assumptions that marketplace participants would use. however, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. the use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments could trigger the need for an impairment charge, or materially increase or decrease the amount of any such impairment charge. during the company's annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2017, a qualitative assessment for all our reporting units' goodwill was performed. for fiscal year 2017, we determined the fair value of all our reporting units were significantly in excess of their carrying values. accordingly, we did not recognize any impairment charges during the year ending december 31, 2017. as part of our qualitative assessment for our 2017 goodwill impairment analysis of our reporting units, the factors that we considered included, but were not limited to: (a) changes in macroeconomic conditions in the overall economy and the specific markets in which we operate, (b) our ability to access capital, (c) changes in the online travel industry, (d) changes in the level of competition, (e) evaluation of current and future forecasted financial results of the reporting units, (f) comparison of our current financial performance to historical and budgeted results of the reporting units, (g) change in excess of the company's market capitalization over its book value, factoring in the decline in the company's stock price during 2017, (h) changes in estimates, valuation inputs, and/or assumptions since the last quantitative analysis of the reporting units, (i) changes in the regulatory environment; and (j) changes in strategic outlook or organizational structure and leadership of the reporting units, and how these factors might impact specific performance in future periods. however, as we periodically reassess estimated future cash flows and asset fair values, changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material impairment charges in the future. intangible assets intangible assets with estimable useful lives, or definite-live intangibles, are carried at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment upon certain triggering events. we routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives of definite-lived intangible assets. if we reduce the estimated useful life assumption, the remaining unamortized balance is amortized over the revised estimated useful life. 76 intangible assets that have indefinite lives are not amort ized and are tested for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. similar to the qualitative assessment for goodwill, we may assess qualitative fac tors to determine if it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived i ntangible asset is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, we compare t he implied fair value of the indefinite-lived asset with its carrying amount. if the carrying value of an individual indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its implied fair value, the individual asset is written down by an amount equal to such excess. t he assessment of qualitative factors is optional and at our discretion. we may bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. we base our measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, using the relief-from-royalty method. this method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the b enefits received from them. this method requires us to estimate future revenues, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital, h owever, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. the use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments could trigger the need for an impairment charge, or materially increase or decrease the amount of any such impairment charge . the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets that is subject to annual assessment for impairment is $30 million at december 31, 2017 and consists of trademarks and tradenames. during the company's annual indefinite-lived intangible impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2017, a qualitative assessment was performed. as part of our qualitative assessment we considered, amongst other factors, the amount of excess fair value of our trade names and trademarks to the carrying value of those same assets, using the results of our most recent quantitative assessment, while also considering changes in estimates and/or valuation input assumptions since the last quantitative analysis. after considering these factors and the impact that changes in such factors would have on the inputs used in our previous quantitative assessment, we determined that it was more likely than not that our indefinite-lived intangible assets were not impaired as of december 31, 2017. impairment of long-lived assets we periodically review the carrying amount of our definite-lived intangible assets and other long term assets, including property and equipment and website and internal use software, to determine whether current events or circumstances indicate that such carrying amounts may not be recoverable. factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. if such facts indicate a potential impairment, we assess the recoverability of the asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset of the group. if the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows, using an appropriate discount rate. any impairment would be measured by the amount that the carrying values, of such asset groups, exceed their fair value and would be included in operating income on the consolidated statement of operations. considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate the fair value of asset groups. accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. we have not identified any circumstances that would warrant an impairment charge for any recorded definite lived or other long term assets on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2017. deferred merchant payables in our vacation rentals free-to-list model and our attractions businesses, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts, net of commissions, on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant payables. we pay the suppliers, or the vacation rental owners and tour providers, respectively, after the travelers' use. therefore, we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying the supplier and this operating cycle 77 represents a working capital source or use of cash to us. our deferred merchant payables balance was $156 million and $128 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses our consolidated financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars. certain of our subsidiaries outside of the united states use the related local currency as their functional currency and not the u.s. dollar. therefore assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate in effect at the applicable reporting date, and the consolidated statements of operations are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the applicable period. the resulting unrealized cumulative translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet. we also have subsidiaries that have transactions in foreign currencies other than their functional currency. transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise. subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transaction gains and losses which are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations as unrealized (based on the applicable period-end exchange rate) or realized upon settlement of the transactions. accordingly, we have recorded net foreign currency exchange gains of $1 million and losses of $4 million and $4 million for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statement of operations. these amounts also include transaction gains and losses, both realized and unrealized from forward contracts. fair value measurements and disclosures we apply fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. we measure assets and liabilities at fair value based on the expected exit price, which is the amount that would be received on the sale of an asset or amount paid to transfer a liability, as the case may be, in an orderly transaction between market participants in the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact. as such, fair value may be based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement date. the authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value on either a recurring or nonrecurring basis whereby inputs, used in valuation techniques, are assigned a hierarchical level. gaap provides the following hierarchical levels of inputs used to measure fair value: level 1 valuations are based on quoted market prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. level 2 valuations are based on observable inputs other than quoted market prices included in level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. level 3 valuations are based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. these valuations require significant judgment. certain risks and concentrations our business is subject to certain risks and concentrations, including concentration related to dependence on our relationships with our customers. for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 our two most significant travel partners, expedia (and its subsidiaries) and priceline (and its subsidiaries), each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and combined accounted for 43%, 46% and 46%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. nearly all of this concentration of revenue is recorded in our hotel segment for these reporting periods. refer to note 17 segment and geographic information for further disclosure on our concentrations for geographic revenue and products. financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk, consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, corporate debt securities, foreign currency exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. we maintain some cash and cash equivalents balances with financial institutions that are in excess of federal deposit 78 insur ance corporation insurance limits. our cash and cash equivalents are primarily composed of bank account balances with financial institutions primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, euros, british pound sterling, and australian dollars, as well as, money mar ket funds. we invest in highly-rated corporate debt securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. our credit risk related to corporate debt securities is also mitigated by the rel atively short maturity period required by our investment policy. foreign currency exchange contracts are transacted with various international financial institutions with high credit standings, which to date, have had maturities of less than 90 days. our o verall credit risk related to accounts receivable is mitigated by the relatively short collection period. contingent liabilities periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. we provide disclosure in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both these conditions if there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred that would be material to the financial statements. significant judgment may be required to determine the probability that a liability has been incurred and whether such liability is reasonably estimable. we base accruals made on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from the amounts included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. treasury stock shares of our common stock repurchased are recorded at cost as treasury stock and result in the reduction of stockholders' equity in our consolidated balance sheet. we may reissue these treasury shares. when treasury shares are reissued, we use the average cost method for determining the cost of reissued shares. if the issuance price is higher than the cost, the excess of the issuance price over the cost is credited to additional paid-in-capital. if the issuance price is lower than the cost, the difference is first charged against any credit balance in additional paid-in-capital from the previous issuances of treasury stock and the remaining balance is charged to retained earnings. earnings per share ( eps ) we compute basic earnings per share by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common and class b common shares outstanding during the period. diluted earnings per share include the potential dilution of common equivalent shares outstanding that could occur from stock-based awards and other stock-based commitments using the treasury stock method. we compute diluted earnings per share by dividing net income by the sum of the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. in periods when we recognize a net loss, we exclude the impact of outstanding stock awards from the diluted loss per share calculation as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. for additional information on how we compute eps, see note 5 earnings per share . new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted in may 2017, the financial accounting standard board ( fasb ) issued new accounting guidance that clarifies when changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award must be accounted for as modifications which will reduce diversity in practice. under the new guidance, an entity will not apply modification accounting to a share-based payment award if the award's fair value (or calculated value or intrinsic value, if those measurement methods are used), the award's vesting conditions, and the award's classification as an equity or liability instrument are the same immediately before and after the change. the guidance also states that an entity is not required to estimate the value of the award immediately before and after the change if the change does not affect any of the inputs to the model used to value the award. the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017, and will be applied prospectively to awards modified on or after the adoption date. early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period for which financial statements have not yet been issued or made available for issuance. we will adopt this new guidance on january 1, 2018. upon adoption, we believe the new guidance will likely result in fewer changes to the terms of an 79 award being accou nted for as modifications. in march 2017, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which shortens the amortization period for the premium paid on certain purchased callable debt securities to the earliest call date instead of the bond's maturity. the amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; instead, the discount continues to be amortized to maturity. the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2018, and will be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. if an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. we anticipate adopting this new guidance on january 1, 2019 and based on the composition of our current investment portfolio we do not expect the new guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in january 2017, the fasb issued new accounting guidance to clarify the definition of a business and provide additional guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as asset acquisitions (or asset disposals) or business combinations (or disposals of a business). under this new guidance, an entity first determines whether substantially all of the fair value of the assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. if this criterion is met, the transaction should be accounted for as an asset acquisition as opposed to a business combination. this distinction is important because the accounting for an asset acquisition significantly differs from the accounting for a business combination. this new guidance eliminates the requirement to evaluate whether a market participant could replace missing elements (e.g. inputs or processes), narrows the definition of outputs and requires that a business include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. this new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2017 and interim periods within those years. early adoption is permitted including adoption in any interim or annual periods in which the financial statements have not been issued or made available for issuance. the new guidance will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring within the period of adoption. we will adopt this new guidance on january 1, 2018. upon adoption, the new guidance will impact how we assess any prospective acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. in november 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on the classification and presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows to address the diversity in practice. this new guidance requires entities to show changes in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash on a combined basis in the statement of cash flows. in addition, this accounting guidance requires a reconciliation of the total cash, cash equivalent and restricted cash in the statement of cash flows to the related captions in the balance sheet if cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash are presented in more than one line item in the balance sheet. the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, including adoption in an interim period, but any adjustments must be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. we will adopt this new guidance on january 1, 2018 and apply it retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements as required under the new guidance. we do not expect a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures upon the adoption of this new guidance. in october 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on income tax accounting associated with intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. this accounting update, which is part of the fasb's simplification initiative, is intended to reduce diversity in practice and the complexity of tax accounting, particularly for those transfers involving intellectual property. this new guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017. early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual reporting period for which interim or annual financial statements have not been issued. upon our adoption of this new guidance on january 1, 2018, we are required to apply the new guidance only on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption, which we do not expect to be material to our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in august 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which clarifies how companies present and classify certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. the new guidance specifically 80 addresses the following cash flow topics in an effort to reduce diversity in p ractice: (1) debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs; (2) settlement of zero-coupon bonds; (3) contingent consideration payments made after a business combination; (4) proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims; (5) proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies, including bank-owned life insurance policies; (6) distributions received from equity method investees; (7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions; and (8) separately identifiable cash flows and appli cation of the predominance principle. the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. upon adoption, an entity may apply the new guidance only retr ospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. we will adopt this new guidance on january 1, 2018 and we do not expect this new guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in june 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on the measurement of credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, which includes accounts receivable, and available-for-sale debt securities. for financial assets measured at amortized cost, this new guidance requires an entity to: (1) estimate its lifetime expected credit losses upon recognition of the financial assets and establish an allowance to present the net amount expected to be collected; (2) recognize this allowance and changes in the allowance during subsequent periods through net income; and (3) consider relevant information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts in assessing the lifetime expected credit losses. for available-for-sale debt securities, this new guidance made several targeted amendments to the existing other-than-temporary impairment model, including: (1) requiring disclosure of the allowance for credit losses; (2) allowing reversals of the previously recognized credit losses until the entity has the intent to sell, is more-likely-than-not required to sell the securities or the maturity of the securities; (3) limiting impairment to the difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value; and (4) not allowing entities to consider the length of time that fair value has been less than amortized cost as a factor in evaluating whether a credit loss exists. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, including interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018. we are currently considering our timing of adoption and in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in february 2016, the fasb issued new guidance related to accounting for leases. the new standard requires the recognition of assets (right-of-use-assets) and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and the disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements. accordingly, a lessee will recognize a lease asset for its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability for the corresponding lease obligation. both the asset and liability will initially be measured at the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term. the new guidance will classify leases as either finance or operating leases, with classification determining the presentation of expenses and cash flows on our consolidated financial statements. initial costs directly attributable to negotiating and arranging the lease will be included in the asset. for leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee can make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset to not recognize an asset and corresponding liability. the transition guidance also provides specific guidance for sale and leaseback transactions, build-to-suit leases and amounts previously recognized in accordance with the business combinations guidance for leases. we will also be required to provide additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases which include, among other things, the computation and disclosure of our weighted average remaining lease term and discount rate, cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities, and supplemental non-cash information on lease liabilities arising from obtaining the right-of-use assets. these disclosures are intended to provide supplemental information to the amounts recorded in the financial statements so that users can better understand the nature of an entity's leasing activities. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted, which will require the recognition and measurement of leases at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements using a modified retrospective approach. we anticipate adopting this new guidance on january 1, 2019. to date, we have made measurable progress toward evaluating the new lease guidance and are in the process of updating accounting policies, accounting position memos, and evaluating our existing population of contracts to ensure all contracts that meet the definition of a lease contract under the new standard are identified. we are also in the process of implementing additional lease software to support our accounting and reporting process, including the new quantitative and qualitative financial disclosure requirements. in addition, we are evaluating the impact of the 81 system implementation and new accounting guidance on our internal contro ls. we will continue to provide updates of our assessment of the effect, that this new lease guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements, disclosures, systems and related internal controls, and will disclose any material effects, if any, wh en known. in january 2016, the fasb issued a new accounting update which amends the guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments. although the accounting update retains many current requirements, it significantly revises accounting related to (1) the classification and measurement of investments in equity securities and (2) the presentation of certain fair value changes for financial liabilities measured at fair value. the accounting update also amends certain fair value disclosures of financial instruments and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale debt securities in combination with the entity's evaluation of their other deferred tax assets. the update requires entities to carry all investments in equity securities, including other ownership interests such as partnerships, unincorporated joint ventures and limited liability companies at fair value, with fair value changes recognized through net income. this requirement does not apply to investments that qualify for equity method accounting, investments that result in consolidation of the investee or investments in which the entity has elected the practicability exception to fair value measurement. under current gaap, available-for-sale investments in equity securities, with a readily determinable fair value, are re-measured to fair value at each reporting period with changes in fair value recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). however, under the new guidance, fair value adjustments will be recognized through net income. for equity securities currently accounted for under the cost method (as they do not have a readily determinable fair value), the new guidance requires those equity investments to be carried at fair value with changes in net income, unless an entity elects to measure those investments, at cost less impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. the company intends to elect this measurement alternative for equity securities without a readily determinable fair value. additionally, this accounting update will simplify the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment. when a qualitative assessment indicates that impairment exists, an entity is required to measure the investment at fair value. in addition, this accounting update eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is currently required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost in the balance sheet. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted for the provision to record fair value changes for financial liabilities under the fair value option resulting from instrument-specific credit risk in other comprehensive income. we will adopt this new guidance on january 1, 2018 on a modified retrospective basis, which requires an entity to recognize the cumulative effect of adopting this guidance as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings, which we do not expect to be material. we also do not expect a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures upon the adoption of this new guidance. in may 2014, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on revenue from contracts with customers which will replace numerous requirements in gaap, and provide companies with a single revenue recognition model for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers. the core principle of the new standard is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. this guidance also requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. in addition, the fasb has also issued several amendments to the standard, which clarify certain aspects of the guidance, including principal versus agent considerations and identifying performance obligations. the two permitted transition methods under this new accounting guidance are the full retrospective method, in which case the guidance would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the guidance would be recognized at the earliest period shown, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the guidance would be recognized at the date of initial application. we will adopt this new guidance on january 1, 2018 under the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of that date. upon adoption, we will recognize the cumulative effect of adopting this guidance as an adjustment to our opening balance of retained earnings. we do not expect this adjustment to be material. prior periods will not be retrospectively adjusted, however, revenues for 2018 will be reported on the new 82 basis and also disclosed on the historical basis. we have evaluated our revenue streams and based on the company's analysis; the adoption of this new revenue guidance will result primarily in immaterial timing changes in recognition of revenue to certain revenue streams, such as for our instant booking revenue recorded under the consumption model, which will be recognized at the transaction booking date for a hotel accommodation rather than upon completion of the stay by the traveler. we expect the adoption of this new revenue standard will not have a material impact, either on an annual or quarterly basis, to our consolidated financial statements on a go-forward basis. our systems and internal controls were not significantly impacted related to the identified accounting changes. while we have made the necessary changes to our accounting policies and internal processes to support the new revenue recognition standard, we are continuing our assessment of potential changes to our disclosures under the new guidance. recently adopted accounting pronouncements on december 22, 2017, the sec published staff accounting bulletin (sab) no. 118, which expresses views of the staff regarding application of fasb accounting standards codification ( asc ) topic 740, income taxes , in the reporting period that includes december 22, 2017, the date on which the 2017 tax act was signed into law. the 2017 tax act changes existing united states tax law and includes numerous provisions that will affect businesses. the 2017 tax act, for instance, introduces changes that impact u.s. corporate tax rates, business-related exclusions, and deductions and credits. the 2017 tax act will also have international tax consequences for many companies that operate internationally. specifically, the staff issued this sab to address situations where the accounting under asc topic 740 is incomplete for certain income tax effects of the 2017 tax act upon issuance of an entity's financial statements for the reporting period in which the 2017 tax act was enacted. a company would report provisional amounts for the specific income tax effects of the 2017 tax act for which the accounting under fasb asc topic 740 will be incomplete but a reasonable estimate can be determined. such provisional amounts would be subject to adjustment during a measurement period, i.e., begins on december 22, 2017 and ends when a company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information that was needed in order to complete the accounting requirements under asc topic 740, until the accounting under fasb asc topic 740 is complete and in no circumstances should the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date. additionally, supplemental disclosures should accompany the provisional amounts, including the reasons for the incomplete accounting, additional information or analysis that is needed, and other information relevant to why the registrant was not able to complete the accounting required under fasb asc topic 740 in a timely manner. for any specific income tax effects of the 2017 tax act for which a reasonable estimate cannot be determined, the company would continue to apply fasb asc topic 740 based on the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to the 2017 tax act being enacted, and would report provisional amounts in the first reporting period in which a reasonable estimate can be determined. refer to note 10 - income taxes for further discussion on the impact of the 2017 tax act on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in january 2017, the fasb issued new accounting guidance to simplify the accounting for goodwill impairment. the new guidance removes step two of the goodwill impairment test, which measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit's goodwill, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation, with the carrying amount of that reporting unit's goodwill. under this new guidance, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, quantitative goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. all other goodwill impairment guidance will remain largely unchanged. entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary. the new guidance is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2019. early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests occurring after january 1, 2017. the new guidance will be applied prospectively. we early adopted this new guidance in the fourth quarter of 2017. the adoption of this new guidance had no impact on our annual goodwill impairment analysis, or on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in october 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which amends the consolidation guidance on how a reporting entity that is the single decision maker of a variable interest entity should treat indirect interests in the entity held through related parties that are under common control within the reporting entity when determining 83 whether it is the primary beneficiary of that variable interest entity. we adopted this new guidance on january 1, 2017, on a retrospective basis, with no impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosu res. note 3: acquisitions and dispositions during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, we acquired a number of businesses in which business combinations were accounted for as purchases of businesses under the acquisition method. the fair value of purchase consideration has been allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date, with the remaining amount recorded to goodwill. acquired goodwill represents the premium we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. we paid a premium in each of these transactions for a number of reasons, including expected operational synergies, the assembled workforces, and the future development initiatives of the assembled workforces. the results of each of these acquired businesses have been included in the consolidated financial statements beginning on the respective acquisition dates. pro-forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented as the financial impact to our consolidated financial statements, both individually and in aggregate, would not be materially different from historical results. for both the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were $1 million, respectively, which are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. 2016 acquisitions of businesses during the year ended december 31, 2016, we completed five acquisitions with a total purchase price of $34 million. the company paid net cash consideration of $28 million, which is net of $4 million of cash acquired, and includes $2 million in future holdback payments, which we currently expect to settle with company common stock over the next three years. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our u.s. cash. we acquired 100% of the outstanding capital stock of the following companies: tous au restaurant, a leading restaurant event week brand in france, purchased in january 2016; housetrip, a european-based vacation rental website, purchased in april 2016; citymaps, a social mapping platform, purchased in august 2016; sneat, a provider of a mobile reservation platform for restaurants in france, purchased in october 2016; and couverts, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in the netherlands, purchased in october 2016. the aggregate purchase price consideration of $34 million was allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. the following summarizes the final allocation, in millions: total goodwill (1) $ 17 intangible assets (2) 25 net tangible assets (liabilities) (3) (8 ) total purchase price consideration (4) $ 34 (1) goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2016 were comprised of trade names of $4 million with a weighted average life of 10 years, customer lists and supplier relationships of $4 million with a weighted average life of 6 years, subscriber relationships of $5 million with a weighted average life of approximately 7 years, and technology and other of $12 million with a weighted average life of approximately 5 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of these businesses during 2016 was 6 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) primarily includes cash acquired of $4 million, accounts receivable of $2 million, and liabilities assumed, including accrued expenses and deferred merchant payables of $3 million and $10 million, respectively, which reflect their respective fair values at acquisition. (4) subject to adjustment based on indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of certain acquired company stockholders. 84 2016 other investments during the year ended december 31, 2016, we also invested a total of $14 million in the equity securities of privately-held companies. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these investments were recorded to other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheet on the acquisition date as cost method investments. 2015 acquisitions of businesses during the year ended december 31, 2015, we completed three acquisitions for a total purchase price consideration of $28 million and paid in cash. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. we acquired 100% of the outstanding capital stock of the following companies: zetrip, a personal journal app that helps users log activities, including places they have visited and photos they have taken, purchased in january 2015; besttables, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in portugal and brazil, purchased in march 2015; and dimmi, a provider of an online and mobile reservations platform for restaurants in australia, purchased in may 2015. the aggregate purchase price consideration of $28 million was allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities. the following summarizes the final allocation, in millions: total goodwill (1) $ 17 intangible assets (2) 12 net tangible assets (liabilities) 1 deferred tax liabilities, net (2 ) total purchase price consideration $ 28 (1) goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2015 were comprised of trade names of $2 million with a weighted average life of approximately 10 years, customer lists and supplier relationships of $7 million with a weighted average life of approximately 6 years and technology and other of $3 million with a weighted average life of approximately 2 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of these businesses during 2015 was 6 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. 2015 sale of business in august 2015, we sold 100% interest in one of our chinese subsidiaries to an unrelated third party for $28 million in cash consideration. accordingly, we deconsolidated $11 million of assets (which included $3 million of cash sold) and $4 million of liabilities from our consolidated balance sheet and recognized a $20 million gain on sale of subsidiary on our consolidated statement of operations in interest income and other, net during the year ended december 31, 2015. 85 note 4: stock based awards and other equity instruments stock-based compensation expense the following table presents the amount of stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards, primarily stock options and rsus, on our consolidated statements of operations during the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) selling and marketing $ 21 $ 20 $ 16 technology and content 40 40 28 general and administrative 35 25 28 total stock-based compensation expense 96 85 72 income tax benefit from stock-based compensation expense (28 ) (31 ) (26 ) total stock-based compensation expense, net of tax effect $ 68 $ 54 $ 46 during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we capitalized $13 million, $12 million and $8 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense as internal-use software and website development costs. stock and incentive plans on december 20, 2011, our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan became effective and we filed post-effective amendment no. 1 on form s-8 to registration statement on form s-4 (file no. 333-178637) (the prior registration statement ) with the sec, registering a total of 17,500,000 shares of our common stock, of which 17,400,000 shares were issuable in connection with grants of equity-based awards under our 2011 incentive plan (7,400,000 of which shares were originally registered on the form s-4 and 10,000,000 of which shares were first registered on the prior registration statement) and 100,000 shares were issuable under our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (refer to note 14 employee benefit plans below for information on our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors). at our annual meeting of stockholders held on june 28, 2013, our stockholders approved an amendment to our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan to, among other things, increase the aggregate number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance thereunder by 15,000,000 shares. we refer to our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan, as amended, the 2011 incentive plan . pursuant to the 2011 incentive plan, we may, among other things, grant rsus, restricted stock, stock options and other stock-based awards to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. the summary of the material terms of the 2011 incentive plan is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the 2011 incentive plan previously filed. as of december 31, 2017, the total number of shares reserved for future stock-based awards under the 2011 incentive plan is approximately 9.4 million shares. all shares of common stock issued in respect of the exercise of options or other equity awards since spin-off have been issued from authorized, but unissued common stock. stock based award activity and valuation 2017 stock option activity during the year ended december 31, 2017, we have issued 2,333,361 of service-based non-qualified stock options from the 2011 incentive plan. these stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and typically vest equally over a four-year requisite service period. 86 a summary of our stock option activity is presented below: weighted weighted average average exercise remaining aggregate options price per contractual intrinsic outstanding share life value (in thousands) (in years) (in millions) options outstanding at december 31, 2016 5,818 $ 57.60 granted (1) 2,333 40.03 exercised (2) (496 ) 29.37 cancelled or expired (802 ) 65.13 options outstanding as of december 31, 2017 6,853 $ 52.78 6.5 $ 3 exercisable as of december 31, 2017 3,340 $ 52.69 4.4 $ 3 vested and expected to vest after december 31, 2017 (3) 6,853 $ 52.78 6.5 $ 3 (1) inclusive of 780,000 stock options awarded to our chief executive officer and president, or ceo, during november 2017. the estimated grant-date fair value per option, using a black-scholes option pricing model was $17.33. these stock options shall vest in equal installments on each of august 1, 2021 and august 1, 2022, subject to the ceo's continuous employment with, or performance of services for, the company. the estimated grant-date fair value of this award will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period through august 1, 2022. (2) inclusive of 294,410 options, which were not converted into shares due to net share settlement in order to cover the aggregate exercise price and the required amount of employee withholding taxes. potential shares which had been convertible under stock options that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2011 incentive plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. (3) the company accounts for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures as allowed under gaap and therefore do not include a forfeiture rate in our vested and expected to vest calculation unless necessary for a performance condition award. aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the closing stock price of our common stock and the exercise price of outstanding, in-the-money options. our closing stock price as reported on nasdaq as of december 31, 2017 was $34.46. the total intrinsic value of stock options exercised for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $8 million, $24 million, and $149 million, respectively. the fair value of stock option grants under the 2011 incentive plan has been estimated at the date of grant using the black scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for the periods presented: december 31, 2017 2016 2015 risk free interest rate 2.02 % 1.20 % 1.58 % expected term (in years) 6.13 4.85 5.42 expected volatility 42.14 % 41.81 % 41.79 % expected dividend yield % % % the weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted was $16.50, $22.95, and $33.02 for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. the total fair value of stock options vested for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $40 million, $28 million, and $36 million, respectively. cash received from stock option exercises for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $3 million, $7 million, and $12 million, respectively. 87 on june 5, 2017, the section 16 committee of our board of directors approved an amendment to the nonqualified stock option awar d (the option ) granted on august 28, 2013 to stephen kaufer, the company's ceo. the amendment provides that the option will expire on the tenth anniversary, instead of the seventh anniversary, of the grant date. vesting conditions under the option were n ot affected by this amendment. as a result of the modification, incremental fair value of $5 million will be recognized to stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining vesting term, which is through august 2018. 2017 rsu activity during the year ended december 31, 2017, we issued 5,042,160 rsus under the 2011 incentive plan, which typically vest over a four-year requisite service period. a summary of our rsu activity, including service based awards and performance-based awards, is presented below: weighted average grant- aggregate rsus date fair intrinsic outstanding value per share value (in thousands) (in millions) unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2016 2,856 $ 69.35 granted (1)(2) 5,042 41.09 vested and released (3) (1,030 ) 67.25 cancelled (853 ) 52.64 unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2017 6,015 $ 48.14 $ 207 expected to vest after december 31, 2017 (4) 6,015 $ 48.14 $ 207 (1) includes the following rsu grants awarded to our ceo, during november 2017: 1) 426,000 service-based rsus; and 2) 213,000 market-based rsus. the service-based rsu award provides for vesting in two equal annual installments on each of august 1, 2021 and august 1, 2022, subject to the ceo's continuous employment with, or performance of services for, the company. the estimated grant-date fair value per rsu, based on the quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant, was $34.71. the estimated grant-date fair value of this award will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period through august 1, 2022. the market-based rsu award provides for vesting based upon the company's total shareholder return, or tsr, performance over the period commencing january 1, 2018 through december 31, 2020 relative to the tsr performance of the nasdaq composite total return index. a monte-carlo simulation model, which simulated the present value of the potential outcomes of future stock prices and tsr of the company and the nasdaq composite total return index over the performance period, was used to calculate the grant-date fair value of these awards, or $30.04 per rsu. the estimated grant-date fair value of this award will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period through december 31, 2020. based upon actual attainment relative to the target performance metric, the ceo has the ability to receive up to 125% of the target number of market-based rsus originally granted, or to be issued none at all. (2) excludes a performance-based rsu grant for 213,000 shares awarded to our ceo during november 2017. this award provides for vesting based on the extent to which the company achieves certain financial and/or the ceo achieves certain strategic performance metrics relative to the targets to be established by the company's compensation committee. one quarter of these rsus may vest and settle annually based on actual performance relative to the targets established annually for each of the four fiscal years ending december 31, 2018; december 31, 2019; december 31, 2020 and december 31, 2021. the estimated grant-date fair value per rsu will be calculated upon the establishment of annual performance targets and each tranche will be amortized on a straight-line basis over its requisite service period. at any point in time during the vesting period, the award's expense to date will at least equal the portion of the grant-date fair value that is expected to vest at that date. based upon actual attainment relative to the target 88 performance metrics, the ceo has the ability to receive up to 125% of the target number originally grante d, or to be issued none at all. (3) inclusive of 301,932 rsus withheld to satisfy required employee tax withholding requirements due to net share settlement. potential shares which had been convertible under rsus that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2011 incentive plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. (4) the company accounts for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures as allowed under gaap and therefore do not include a forfeiture rate in our expected to vest calculation unless necessary for a performance condition award, respectively. total current income tax benefits associated with the exercise or settlement of tripadvisor stock-based awards held by our employees during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 were $27 million, $21 million and $63 million, respectively. unrecognized stock-based compensation a summary of our remaining unrecognized compensation expense and the weighted average remaining amortization period at december 31, 2017 related to our non-vested stock options and rsu awards is presented below (in millions, except in years information): stock options rsus unrecognized compensation expense $ 52 $ 222 weighted average period remaining (in years) 2.9 3.0 note 5: earnings per share basic earnings per share attributable to common stockholders we compute basic earnings per share, or basic eps, by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. we compute the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period using the total of common stock and class b common stock outstanding as of the last day of the previous year end reporting period plus the weighted average of any additional shares issued and outstanding less the weighted average of any common shares repurchased during the reporting period. diluted earnings per share attributable to common stockholders diluted earnings per share, or diluted eps, include the potential dilution of common equivalent shares outstanding that could occur from stock-based awards and other stock-based commitments using the treasury stock method. we compute diluted eps by dividing net income (loss) by the sum of the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. we computed the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period using the sum of (i) the number of shares of common stock and class b common stock used in the basic earnings per share calculation as indicated above, and (ii) if dilutive, the incremental weighted average common stock that we would issue upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common equivalent shares related to stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units using the treasury stock method, and (iii) if dilutive, performance based awards based on the number of shares that would be issuable as of the end of the reporting period assuming the end of the reporting period was also the end of the contingency period. under the treasury stock method, the assumed proceeds calculation includes the actual proceeds to be received from the employee upon exercise of outstanding equity awards and the average unrecognized compensation cost during the period. the treasury stock method assumes that a company uses the proceeds from the exercise of an equity award to repurchase common stock at the average market price for the reporting period. 89 in periods of a net loss, common equivalent shares are excluded from the calculation of diluted eps as their inclusion would have an antidilutive eff ect. accordingly, for periods in which we report a net loss, diluted eps is the same as basic eps, since dilutive common equivalent shares are not assumed to have been issued if their effect is anti-dilutive. below is a reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding in calculating diluted eps (shares in thousands and dollars in millions, except per share amounts) for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 numerator: net income (loss) $ (19 ) $ 120 $ 198 denominator: weighted average shares used to compute basic eps 140,445 145,443 143,836 weighted average effect of dilutive securities: stock options - 1,129 1,839 rsus - 321 292 weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps 140,445 146,893 145,967 basic eps $ (0.14 ) $ 0.83 $ 1.38 diluted eps $ (0.14 ) $ 0.82 $ 1.36 potential common shares, consisting of outstanding stock options and rsus, totaling approximately 12.5 million, 3.9 million, and 2.7 million, respectively, for the years ending december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, have been excluded from the calculations of diluted eps because their effect would have been antidilutive. in addition, potential common shares of approximately 0.6 million, 0.1 million, and 0.1 million, respectively, for the years ending december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, consisting of performance-based options and rsus, for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved, were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. the earnings per share amounts are the same for common stock and class b common stock because the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share distributions whether through dividends or in liquidation. 90 note 6: financial instruments and fair value measurements cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities the following tables show our cash and available-for-sale securities' amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value by fair value hierarchy and significant investment category recorded as cash and cash equivalents or short and long-term marketable securities as of the dates presented (in millions): december 31, 2017 cash and short-term long-term amortized unrealized unrealized fair cash marketable marketable cost gains losses value equivalents securities securities cash $ 663 $ $ $ 663 $ 663 $ $ level 1: money market funds 1 1 1 level 2: u.s. agency securities 11 11 6 5 u.s. treasury securities 1 1 1 certificates of deposit 2 2 2 commercial paper 11 11 9 2 corporate debt securities 46 46 24 22 subtotal 71 71 9 35 27 total $ 735 $ $ $ 735 $ 673 $ 35 $ 27 december 31, 2016 cash and short-term long-term amortized unrealized unrealized fair cash marketable marketable cost gains losses value equivalents securities securities cash $ 595 $ $ $ 595 $ 595 $ $ level 1: money market funds 17 17 17 level 2: u.s. agency securities 23 23 21 2 u.s. treasury securities 8 8 8 certificates of deposit 16 16 15 1 commercial paper 5 5 5 corporate debt securities 82 82 69 13 subtotal 134 134 118 16 total $ 746 $ $ $ 746 $ 612 $ 118 $ 16 our cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand in global financial institutions, money market funds and marketable securities, with maturities of 90 days or less at the date purchased. the remaining maturities of our long-term marketable securities range from one to three years and our short-term marketable securities include maturities that were greater than 90 days at the date purchased and had 12 months or less remaining at december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. we classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities within level 1 and level 2 as we value our cash equivalents and marketable securities using quoted market prices (level 1) or alternative pricing sources (level 2). the valuation technique we used to measure the fair value of money market funds were derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. fair values for level 2 investments are considered level 2 valuations because they are obtained from independent pricing sources for identical or comparable instruments, rather than direct observations of quoted prices in active markets. our procedures include controls to ensure that appropriate fair values are recorded, including comparing the fair values obtained from our independent pricing services against fair values obtained from another independent source. 91 there were no material realized gains or losses related to sales of our marketable securities for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015. there wer e also no material unrealized gains or losses related to our marketable securities held at december 31, 2017 and 2016. we consider any individual investments in an unrealized loss position to be temporary in nature and do not consider any of our investment other-than-temporarily impaired as of december 31, 2017. derivative financial instruments our forward contracts, which we have entered into to date, have not been designated as hedges and have had maturities of less than 90 days. consequently, any gain or loss resulting from the change in fair value has been recognized in our consolidated statement of operations. we recorded a net loss of $1 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, and a net gain of $2 million for both the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, related to our forward contracts in our consolidated statements of operations in interest income and other, net. the following table shows the notional principal amounts of our outstanding derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments for the periods presented: december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 (in millions) foreign currency exchange-forward contracts (1)(2) $ $ 6 (1) derivative contracts address foreign currency exchange fluctuations for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. the company had no outstanding derivative contracts as of december 31, 2017 and two outstanding derivative contracts as of december 31, 2016. (2) the fair value of our outstanding derivatives as of december 31, 2016 was not material and was reported as an asset in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheet. we measure the fair value of our outstanding or unsettled derivatives using level 2 fair value inputs, as we use a pricing model that takes into account the contract terms as well as current foreign currency exchange rates in active markets. counterparties to foreign currency exchange derivatives consist of major international financial institutions. we monitor our positions and the credit ratings of the counterparties involved and, by policy limits, the amount of credit exposure to any one party. while we may be exposed to potential losses due to the credit risk of non-performance by these counterparties, losses are not anticipated and any credit risk amounts associated with our outstanding or unsettled derivative instruments are deemed to be not material for any period presented. other financial instruments other financial assets and liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis, or carried at cost, include accounts receivable, accounts payable, deferred merchant payables, short-term debt, accrued and other current liabilities and long-term debt. with the exception of long-term debt, the carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments as reported on our consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016, respectively. the carrying value of the long-term debt from our 2015 credit facility bears interest at a variable rate and therefore is also considered to approximate fair value. we also hold investments in equity securities of privately-held companies with a total carrying value of $12 million and $14 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. these investments are accounted for under the cost method and included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheet. under cost method accounting, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. the company evaluates its investments at each reporting period or on a quarterly basis, to determine if any indicators of other-than-temporary impairment exist. accordingly, we recognized a loss of $2 million related to the investment in one of these privately-held companies during the year ended december 31, 2017, which is included in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statement of operations. we did not have any losses or impairments related to our cost method investments during the year ended december 31, 2016. 92 the company did not have any recurring assets or liabilities measured at fair value that would be considered level 3 at december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016. note 7: property and equipment, net property and equipment consists of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 (in millions) capitalized software and website development $ 213 $ 153 building (1) 123 123 leasehold improvements 39 39 computer equipment and purchased software 46 37 furniture, office equipment and other 19 19 440 371 less: accumulated depreciation (177 ) (111 ) total $ 263 $ 260 (1) the company is deemed for accounting purposes to be the owner of its corporate headquarters building under gaap, and depreciates the asset over its estimated useful life of 40 years on a straight-line basis. refer to note 13 commitments and contingencies , for additional information on our corporate headquarters lease. as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016, the carrying value of our capitalized software and website development costs, net of accumulated amortization, were $97 million and $86 million, respectively. for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we capitalized $65 million, $62 million and $52 million, respectively, related to software and website development costs. for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded amortization of capitalized software and website development costs of $54 million, $46 million and $37 million, respectively, which is included in depreciation expense on our consolidated statements of operations for those years. note 8: goodwill and intangible assets, net the following table summarizes our goodwill activity by reportable segment for the periods presented: hotel non-hotel consolidated (in millions) balance as of december 31, 2015 $ 442 $ 290 $ 732 acquisitions (1) 10 7 17 other adjustments (2) (1 ) (12 ) (13 ) balance as of december 31, 2016 $ 451 $ 285 $ 736 other adjustments (2) - 22 22 balance as of december 31, 2017 $ 451 $ 307 $ 758 (1) the additions to goodwill relate to our business acquisitions. refer to note 3 acquisitions and dispositions , for further information. (2) primarily related to impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates to goodwill. 93 intangible assets, which were acquired in business combinations and recorded at fair value on the date of purchase, consist of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2017 2016 (in millions) intangible assets with definite lives $ 224 $ 217 less: accumulated amortization (112 ) (80 ) intangible assets with definite lives, net 112 137 intangible assets with indefinite lives 30 30 total $ 142 $ 167 amortization expense was $32 million, $32 million, and $36 million, respectively, for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. our indefinite-lived intangible assets relate to trade names and trademarks. there were no impairment charges recognized to our consolidated statement of operations during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 related to our goodwill or intangible assets. the following table presents the components of our intangible assets with definite lives for the periods presented: december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 weighted average gross net gross net remaining life carrying accumulated carrying carrying accumulated carrying (in years) amount amortization amount amount amortization amount (in millions) (in millions) trade names and trademarks 6.8 $ 58 $ (20 ) $ 38 $ 56 $ (14 ) $ 42 customer lists and supplier relationships 3.6 87 (43 ) 44 84 (31 ) 53 subscriber relationships 4.3 35 (22 ) 13 33 (15 ) 18 technology and other 2.6 44 (27 ) 17 44 (20 ) 24 total 4.6 $ 224 $ (112 ) $ 112 $ 217 $ (80 ) $ 137 refer to note 3 acquisitions and dispositions above for a discussion of definite lived intangible assets acquired in business combinations during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015. our definite-lived intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis. the straight-line method of amortization is currently our best estimate, or approximates to date, the distribution of the economic use of these intangible assets. the estimated amortization expense for intangible assets with definite lives for each of the next five years, and the expense thereafter, assuming no subsequent impairment of the underlying assets or change in estimate of remaining lives, is expected to be as follows (in millions): 2018 $ 31 2019 27 2020 22 2021 14 2022 7 2023 and thereafter 11 total $ 112 94 note 9: debt the company's outstanding debt consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, december 31, 2017 2016 (in millions) short-term debt: chinese credit facilities $ 7 $ 7 2016 credit facility - 73 total short-term debt (1) $ 7 $ 80 long-term debt: 2015 credit facility $ 230 $ 91 total long-term debt $ 230 $ 91 (1) the weighted-average interest rate on short-term debt was 5.0% as of december 31, 2017 and 2.1% as of december 31, 2016. 2011 credit facility in december 2011, we entered into a credit agreement (the 2011 credit facility ) with a group of lenders, which provided $600 million of borrowing including: a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $400 million with a term of five years due december 2016 ( term loan ); and a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $200 million available in u.s. dollars, euros and british pound sterling with a term of five years expiring december 2016. in june 2015, the entire outstanding principal on our term loan in the amount of $290 million was repaid with borrowings from our 2015 credit facility (described below) and the 2011 credit facility was subsequently terminated. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we recorded total interest and commitment fees on our 2011 credit facility of $3 million to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. there was no resulting loss on early extinguishment of this debt. 2015 credit facility in june 2015, we entered into a five year credit agreement with a group of lenders which, among other things, provided for a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2015 credit facility ) and immediately borrowed $290 million. in may 2017, the 2015 credit facility was amended to, among other things, (i) increase the aggregate amount of revolving loan commitments available from $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion; and (ii) extend the maturity date of the 2015 credit facility from june 26, 2020 to may 12, 2022 (the first amendment ). borrowings under the 2015 credit facility generally bear interest, at the company's option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the eurocurrency borrowing rate, or the adjusted libo rate for the interest period in effect for such borrowing; plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.25% to 2.00% ( eurocurrency spread ), based on the company's leverage ratio; or (ii) the alternate base rate ( abr ) borrowing, which is the greatest of (a) the prime rate in effect on such day, (b) the new york fed bank rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1.00% per annum and (c) the adjusted libo rate (or libo rate multiplied by the statutory reserve rate) for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%; in addition to an applicable margin ranging from 0.25% to 1.00% ( abr spread ), based on the company's leverage ratio. the company may borrow from the revolving credit facility in u.s dollars, euros and british pound sterling. during the year ended december 31, 2017, the company borrowed an additional $435 million and repaid $296 million of our outstanding borrowings under the 2015 credit facility. these net borrowings during the year were primarily used to repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock under the company's repurchase program, which is described in note 15 - stockholders equity . during the year ended december 31, 2016, the 95 company borrowed an additional $101 million and repaid $210 million of our outstanding borrowings on the 2015 credit facility. as of december 31, 2017, based on the company's leverage ratio, our borrowings bear interest at libo rate; plus an applicable margin of 1.25%, or the eurocurrency spread. the company was borrowing under a one-month interest rate period or a weighted average rate of 2.74% per annum as of december 31, 2017, using a one-month interest period eurocurrency spread, which will reset periodically. interest will be payable on a monthly basis while the company is borrowing under the one-month interest rate period. we are also required to pay a quarterly commitment fee, at an applicable rate ranging from 0.15% to 0.30%, on the daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility for each fiscal quarter and additional fees in connection with the issuance of letters of credit. as of december 31, 2017, our unused revolver capacity was subject to a commitment fee of 0.15%, given the company's leverage ratio. the 2015 credit facility includes $15 million of borrowing capacity available for letters of credit and $40 million for swing line borrowings on same-day notice. as of december 31, 2017, we had issued $3 million of outstanding letters of credit under the 2015 credit facility. we recorded total interest expense and commitment fees on our 2015 credit facility of $6 million, $4 million and $2 million for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. all unpaid interest and commitment fee amounts as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016, respectively, were not material. we also incurred lender fees and debt financing costs totaling $3 million in connection with entering into the 2015 credit facility in june 2015, which were capitalized as deferred financing costs and recorded to other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet. in connection with the first amendment, in may 2017, we incurred additional lender fees and debt financing costs totaling $2 million, which were capitalized as deferred financing costs and recorded to other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 31, 2017, the company has $3 million remaining in deferred financing costs in connection with the 2015 credit facility. these costs are being amortized over the remaining term on a straight line basis and recorded to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. the resulting write down of previous deferred financing costs as a result of the first amendment was not material. there is no specific repayment date prior to the maturity date for borrowings under this credit agreement. we may voluntarily repay any outstanding borrowing under the 2015 credit facility at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs with respect to eurocurrency loans. additionally, the company believes that the likelihood of the lender exercising any subjective acceleration rights, which would permit the lenders to accelerate repayment of any outstanding borrowings, is remote. as such, we classify borrowings under this facility as long-term debt. the 2015 credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur additional indebtedness, create liens, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, engage in mergers or consolidations, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends and distributions, make investments, loans or advances, prepay certain subordinated indebtedness, make certain acquisitions, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, amend material agreements governing certain subordinated indebtedness, and change our fiscal year. the 2015 credit facility also requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default, including a change of control. if an event of default occurs, the lenders under the 2015 credit facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of all amounts due under the 2015 credit facility. as of december 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. 2016 credit facility in september 2016, we entered into an uncommitted facility agreement which provides for a $73 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2016 credit facility ) with no specific expiration date. the 2016 credit facility is available at the lender's discretion and can be canceled at any time. repayment terms for borrowings under the 2016 credit facility are generally one to six month periods, or such other periods as the parties may mutually agree, and bear interest at libor plus 112.5 basis points. the company may borrow from the 2016 credit facility in u.s dollars only and we may voluntarily repay any outstanding borrowing at any time without premium or penalty. any overdue amounts under or in respect of the 2016 credit facility not paid when due shall bear interest in the case of principal at the applicable interest rate plus 1.50% per annum. in connection with the 2016 credit facility, any lender fees and debt financing costs paid were not material. there are no specific financial or incurrence covenants. 96 we borrowed $73 million from this uncommitted credit facility in september 2016 and repaid the full amount during the first three months of 2017. these funds were used for general working capital needs of the company, primarily for partial repayment of our 2015 credit facility and recorded in current portion of debt on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2016. we had no outstanding borrowings under this 2016 credit facility as of december 31, 2017. during the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, total interest recorded with respect to our 2016 credit fa cility to interest expense on our consolidated statement of operations were not material. chinese credit facilities in addition to our 2015 credit facility and 2016 credit facility, we maintain two credit facilities in china (jointly, the chinese credit facilities ). we are parties to a $30 million, one-year revolving credit facility with bank of america (the chinese credit facility boa ) that is currently subject to review on a periodic basis with no specific expiration period. borrowings under our chinese credit facility boa generally bear interest at a rate based on people's bank of china benchmark, including certain adjustments which may be made in accordance with the market condition at the time of borrowing. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, there were no outstanding borrowings under our chinese credit facility boa. we are also parties to a rmb 70,000,000 (approximately $10 million) one-year revolving credit facility with j.p. morgan chase bank ( chinese credit facility-jpm ). our chinese credit facility jpm generally bears interest at a rate based on people's bank of china benchmark, including certain adjustments which may be made in accordance with the market condition at the time of borrowing. as of both december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016, we had $7 million of outstanding borrowings from the chinese credit facility jpm at a weighted average rate of 5.00% and 4.35%, respectively. note 10: income taxes the following table presents a summary of our domestic and foreign income before income taxes: year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) domestic $ 81 $ 64 $ 67 foreign 29 87 172 total $ 110 $ 151 $ 239 the following table presents a summary of the components of our provision for income taxes: year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) current income tax expense: federal $ 93 $ 38 $ 48 state 1 2 8 foreign 6 11 22 current income tax expense 100 51 78 deferred income tax expense (benefit): federal 25 (12 ) (29 ) state 2 (3 ) (2 ) foreign 2 (5 ) (6 ) deferred income tax expense (benefit): 29 (20 ) (37 ) provision for income taxes $ 129 $ 31 $ 41 97 the company reduced its current income tax payable by $27 million, $21 million and $63 million for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, for tax deductions attributable to the exercise or settlement of the company's stock-based awards. the significant components of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: december 31, 2017 2016 (in millions) deferred tax assets: stock-based compensation $ 36 $ 52 net operating loss carryforwards 56 46 provision for accrued expenses 4 12 deferred rent 3 5 lease financing obligation 22 33 foreign advertising spend 13 10 deferred expense related to cost-sharing arrangement 26 30 interest carryforward 7 charitable contribution carryforward 20 other 7 7 total deferred tax assets $ 174 $ 215 less: valuation allowance (55 ) (27 ) net deferred tax assets $ 119 $ 188 deferred tax liabilities: intangible assets $ (59 ) $ (83 ) property and equipment (21 ) (28 ) prepaid expenses (4 ) (6 ) building - corporate headquarters (20 ) (31 ) deferred income related to cost-sharing arrangement (13 ) (10 ) total deferred tax liabilities $ (117 ) $ (158 ) net deferred tax asset (liability) $ 2 $ 30 at december 31, 2017, we had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards ( nols ) of approximately $9 million, $41 million and $171 million, respectively. if not utilized, the federal and state nols will expire at various times between 2020 and 2037 and the foreign nols will expire at various times between 2018 and 2028. as of december 31, 2017, we had a valuation allowance of approximately of $55 million related to certain nol carryforwards for which it is more likely than not, the tax benefit will not be realized. this amount represented an overall increase of $28 million over the amount recorded as of december 31, 2016. the increase is primarily related to additional foreign net operating losses. except for such foreign deferred tax assets, we expect to realize all of our deferred tax assets based on a strong history of earnings in the u.s. and other jurisdictions, as well as future reversals of taxable temporary differences. 98 a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income before income taxes is as follows: year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) income tax expense at the federal statutory rate of 35% $ 38 $ 53 $ 84 foreign rate differential (25 ) (35 ) (53 ) state income taxes, net of effect of federal tax benefit 5 4 4 unrecognized tax benefits and related interest 12 11 12 change in cost-sharing treatment of stock-based compensation (5 ) (6 ) (13 ) non-deductible transaction costs 1 impacts related to the 2017 tax act 73 research tax credit (8 ) (10 ) (3 ) stock-based compensation 13 2 2 change in valuation allowance 25 9 5 other, net 1 3 2 provision for income taxes $ 129 $ 31 $ 41 during 2011, the singapore economic development board accepted our application to receive a tax incentive under the international headquarters award. this incentive provides for a reduced tax rate on qualifying income of 5% as compared to singapore's statutory tax rate of 17% and is conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. this agreement has been extended until june 30, 2021 as we have met certain employment and investment thresholds. this benefit resulted in a decrease to our 2017 provision for income tax expense of $1 million. the 2017 tax act was signed into united states tax law on december 22, 2017. the 2017 tax act significantly changes the u.s. corporate income tax regime by, among other things, lowering the u.s. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective january 1, 2018. the 2017 tax act also provides for a mandatory one-time tax on the deemed repatriation of accumulative foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries (the transition tax ), as well as prospective changes beginning in 2018, including additional limitations on executive compensation. under gaap, the effects of changes in tax rates and laws are recognized in the period in which the new legislation is enacted. on december 22, 2017, the securities and exchange commission issued sab 118, which allows us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. the measurement period is deemed to have ended earlier when the registrant has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its accounting. during the measurement period, impacts of the law are expected to be recorded at the time a reasonable estimate for all or a portion of the effects can be made, and provisional amounts can be recognized and adjusted as information becomes available, prepared, or analyzed. sab 118 summarizes a three-step process to be applied at each reporting period to account for and qualitatively disclose: (1) the effects of the change in tax law for which accounting is complete; (2) provisional amounts (or adjustments to provisional amounts) for the effects of the tax law where accounting is not complete, but that a reasonable estimate has been determined; and (3) a reasonable estimate cannot yet be made and therefore taxes are reflected in accordance with law prior to the enactment of the 2017 tax act. our financial results, including an estimate of $67 million of transition tax, and $6 million recorded due to a remeasurement of our net deferred tax assets, reflect provisional amounts for those specific income tax effects of the 2017 tax act for which the accounting under asc topic 740 is incomplete but a reasonable estimate could be determined. the company has not obtained, prepared and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its computations and accounting for the transition tax. since there is ongoing guidance and accounting interpretation expected over the next 12 months, we consider the accounting of the transition tax, deferred tax remeasurements, and other items to be provisional due to the forthcoming guidance and our ongoing analysis of final year-end data and tax positions. 99 other significant provisions that are not yet effective but may impact income taxes in future years include: an exemption from u.s. tax on dividends of future foreign earnings, limitations on the deductibility of certain executive compensation, an incremental tax (base erosion anti-abuse tax or beat ) on excessive amounts paid to foreign re lated parties, deductions related to foreign derived intangible income, and a minimum tax on certain foreign earnings in excess of 10 percent of the foreign subsidiaries tangible assets (i.e., global intangible low-taxed income or gilti ). we are still ev aluating whether to make a policy election to treat the gilti tax as a period expense or to provide u.s. deferred taxes on foreign temporary differences that are expected to generate gilti income when they reverse in future years. by virtue of previously filed consolidated income tax returns filed with expedia, we are currently under an irs audit for the 2009, 2010, and short-period 2011 tax years, and have various ongoing state income tax audits. we are separately under examination by the irs for the short-period 2011, 2012 and 2013 tax years and have commenced an employment tax audit with the irs for the 2013 and 2014 tax years. these audits include questioning of the timing and the amount of income and deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. these examinations may lead to proposed or ordinary course adjustments to our taxes. we are no longer subject to tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2009. as of december 31, 2017, no material assessments have resulted, except as noted below regarding our 2009 and 2010 irs audit with expedia. in january 2017, as part of the company's irs audit of expedia, we received notices of proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2009 and 2010 tax years. these proposed adjustments are related to certain transfer pricing arrangements with our foreign subsidiaries, and would result in an increase to our worldwide income tax expense in an estimated range of $10 million to $14 million after consideration of competent authority relief, exclusive of interest and penalties. we disagree with the proposed adjustments and we intend to defend our position through applicable administrative and, if necessary, judicial remedies. our policy is to review and update tax reserves as facts and circumstances change. based on our interpretation of the regulations and available case law, we believe the position we have taken with regard to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries is sustainable. in addition to the risk of additional tax for 2009 and 2010 transactions, if the irs were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, we would be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. in july 2015, the united states tax court (the court ) issued an opinion favorable to altera corporation ( altera ) with respect to altera's litigation with the irs. this opinion was submitted as a final decision under tax court rule 155 during december 2015. the litigation relates to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an inter-company cost-sharing arrangement with altera's foreign subsidiary. in its opinion, the court accepted altera's position of excluding stock based compensation from its inter-company cost-sharing arrangement. the irs appealed the court decision on february 19, 2016. at this time, the u.s. department of the treasury has not withdrawn the requirement from its regulations to include stock-based compensation in intercompany cost-sharing arrangements. the company recorded a tax benefit of $5 million and $6 million in its consolidated statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. the company will continue to monitor this matter and related potential impacts to its consolidated financial statements. cumulative undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately $882 million as of december 31, 2017. subsequent to december 31, 2017, on february 2, 2018, tripadvisor made a one-time repatriation of $325 million of foreign earnings to the united states primarily to repay our remaining outstanding debt under the 2015 credit facility. refer to note 20 subsequent events for additional information on this repatriation. tripadvisor intends to indefinitely reinvest the remaining foreign undistributed earnings of $557 million although we will continue to evaluate the impact of the 2017 tax act on our capital deployment within and outside the u.s. should we distribute, or be treated under certain u.s. tax rules as having distributed, the earnings of foreign subsidiaries in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to u.s. income taxes or tax benefits. the amount of any unrecognized deferred income tax on this temporary difference is not material. the majority of cash on hand is denominated in u.s. dollars. 100 a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits (excluding interest and penalties) is as follows: december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) balance, beginning of year $ 105 $ 89 $ 67 increases to tax positions related to the current year 17 16 15 increases to tax positions related to the prior year 1 1 7 reductions due to lapsed statute of limitations (1 ) decreases to tax positions related to the prior year settlements during current year balance, end of year $ 123 $ 105 $ 89 as of december 31, 2017, we had $123 million of unrecognized tax benefits, net of interest, which is classified as long-term and included in other long-term liabilities and deferred income taxes, net on our consolidated balance sheet. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce income tax expense by $78 million, due to correlative adjustments in other tax jurisdictions. we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense on our consolidated statement of operations. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, total gross interest accrued was $13 million and $9 million, respectively. we do not anticipate any material changes in the next fiscal year. note 11: accrued expenses and other current liabilities accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 (in millions) accrued employee salary, bonus, and related benefits $ 60 $ 53 accrued marketing costs 39 37 other 37 37 total $ 136 $ 127 note 12: other long-term liabilities other long-term liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 (in millions) unrecognized tax benefits (1) $ 127 $ 108 long-term income taxes payable (2) 61 $ - financing obligation, net of current portion (3) 84 84 other (4) 21 18 total $ 293 $ 210 (1) refer to note 10 income taxes for additional information on our unrecognized tax benefits. amount includes accrued interest related to this liability. (2) amount relates to the long-term portion of transition tax related to 2017 tax act at december 31, 2017. refer to note 10 income taxes , for additional information. (3) refer to note 13 commitments and contingencies , for additional information on our corporate headquarters lease. (4) amounts primarily consist of long-term deferred rent balances related to our operating leases for office space. 101 note 13: commitments and contingencies we have material commitments and obligations that include office space leases, and expected interest and commitment fees on long-term debt, which are not accrued on the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2017 but we expect to require future cash outflows. the following table summarizes our material commitments and obligations as of december 31, 2017: by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years (in millions) property leases, net of sublease income (1) $ 228 $ 28 $ 53 $ 51 $ 96 expected interest and commitment fee payments on 2015 credit facility (2) 34 7 16 11 total (3) $ 262 $ 35 $ 69 $ 62 $ 96 (1) estimated future minimum rental payments under operating leases with non-cancelable lease terms, including our corporate headquarters lease in needham, ma. (2) expected interest payments on the 2015 credit facility are based on the effective interest rate and outstanding borrowings as of december 31, 2017, but could change significantly in the future. amounts assume that our existing debt is repaid at the end of the credit agreement and do not assume additional borrowings or refinancing of existing debt. expected commitment fee payments are based on the unused portion of credit facility, issued letters of credit, and current effective commitment fee rate as of december 31, 2017; however, these variables could change significantly in the future. refer to note 9 debt and note 20 subsequent events for additional information on our 2015 credit facility and subsequent repayment of our outstanding borrowings on our 2015 credit facility in 2018, respectively. (3) excluded from the table was $127 million of unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, that we have recorded in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. we do not anticipate any material changes in the next year. also excluded from the table was $61 million of estimated transition tax related to 2017 tax act recorded in long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2017, that we believe the majority will be paid more than five years from december 31, 2017. refer to note 10 income taxes , for additional information on these amounts. office lease commitments we have contractual obligations in the form of operating leases for office space for which we record the related expense on a monthly basis. certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. rent expense related to such leases is recorded on a straight-line basis. office lease commitments expire at various dates with the latest maturity in december 2030. for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded rental expense of $18 million, $18 million and $19 million, respectively, net of sublease income of $3 million, $2 million and $1 million, respectively. corporate headquarters lease in june 2013, we entered into a lease, for a new corporate headquarters (the lease ). pursuant to the lease, the landlord built an approximately 280,000 square foot rental building in needham, massachusetts (the premises ), and leased the premises to the company as our new corporate headquarters for an initial term of 15 years and 7 months or through december 2030. the company also has an option to extend the term of the lease for two consecutive terms of five years each. because we were involved in the construction project and were responsible for paying a portion of the costs of normal finish work and structural elements of the premises, the company was deemed for accounting purposes to be the owner of the premises during the construction period under build to suit lease accounting guidance under gaap. therefore, the company recorded project construction costs during the construction period incurred by the landlord 102 as a construction-in-progress asset and a relat ed construction financing obligation on our consolidated balance sheets. the amounts that the company has paid or incurred for normal tenant improvements and structural improvements had also been recorded to the construction-in-progress asset. upon completion of construction at end of the second quarter of 2015, we evaluated the construction-in-progress asset and construction financing obligation for de-recognition under the criteria for sale-leaseback treatment under gaap. we concluded that we have forms of continued economic involvement in the facility, and therefore did not meet the provisions for sale-leaseback accounting. this determination was based on the company's continuing involvement with the property in the form of non-recourse financing to the lessor. therefore, the lease is accounted for as a financing obligation. accordingly, we began depreciating the building asset over its estimated useful life and incurring interest expense related to the financing obligation imputed using the effective interest rate method. we bifurcate our lease payments pursuant to the premises into: (i) a portion that is allocated to the building (a reduction to the financing obligation) and; (ii) a portion that is allocated to the land on which the building was constructed. the portion of the lease obligations allocated to the land is treated as an operating lease that commenced in 2013. the lease costs allocated to the land are recognized as rent expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease and are recorded in general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations. the financing obligation is considered a long-term finance lease obligation and is recorded to other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. at the end of the lease term, the carrying value of the building asset and the remaining financing obligation are expected to be equal, at which time we may either surrender the leased asset as settlement of the remaining financing obligation or extend the initial term of the lease for the continued use of the asset. in the years ended december 31 2017, 2016, and 2015, the company recorded $7 million, $7 million, and $4 million of interest expense, respectively, $3 million, $3 million, and $2 million of depreciation expense, respectively, and $2 million, $2 million, $1 million, of rent expense in general and administrative expense on our consolidated statements of operations, respectively, related to the premises. additional united states and international locations we also lease an aggregate of approximately 450,000 square feet of office space at approximately 40 other locations across north america, europe and asia pacific, in cities such as, new york, boston, london, sydney, barcelona, paris, and beijing, primarily for our sales offices, subsidiary headquarters, and international management teams, pursuant to leases with various expiration dates, with the latest expiring in june 2027. as of december 31, 2017 , future minimum commitments under our corporate headquarters lease and other non-cancelable operating leases for office space with terms of more than one year and contractual sublease income were as follows: year corporate headquarters lease (1) other operating leases sublease income total lease commitments (net of sublease income) (in millions) 2018 $ 9 $ 22 $ (3 ) $ 28 2019 9 21 (3 ) 27 2020 9 19 (2 ) 26 2021 10 17 (2 ) 25 2022 10 17 (1 ) 26 thereafter 77 19 96 total $ 124 $ 115 $ (11 ) $ 228 (1) amount includes an $84 million financing obligation, which we have recorded in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2017, related to our corporate headquarters lease. letters of credit as of december 31, 2017, we have issued unused letters of credit totaling approximately $3 million, related to our property leases, which includes $1 million delivered to the landlord of our corporate headquarters as security deposit, which amount is subject to increase under certain circumstances. 103 legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, we are parties to regulatory and legal matters arising out of our operations. these matters may involve claims involving alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights (including patent infringement), defamation, taxes, regulatory compliance, privacy issues and other claims. periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. we provide disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both of these conditions if there is a reasonable probability that a loss may have been incurred and whether such loss is reasonably estimable. we base accruals made on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, the company does not believe that the final disposition of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the business. however, the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from our estimates. finally, there may be claims or actions pending or threatened against us of which we are currently not aware and the ultimate disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on us. income taxes as described above, we are also under audit by the irs and various other domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to income tax matters. we have reserved for potential adjustments to our provision for income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period for which that determination is made. we continue to accumulate cash flows, in foreign jurisdictions which we consider indefinitely reinvested, although we will continue to evaluate the impact of the 2017 tax act on our capital deployment within and outside the u.s. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates and incremental cash tax payments. refer to note 10 income taxes above for further information on potential contingencies surrounding income taxes. note 14: employee benefit plans retirement savings plan the tripadvisor retirement savings plan (the 401(k) plan ), qualifies under section 401(k) of the internal revenue code. the 401(k) plan allows participating employees, most of our u.s. employees, to make contributions of a specified percentage of their eligible compensation. participating employees may contribute up to 50% of their eligible salary on a pre-tax basis, but not more than statutory limits. employee-participants age 50 and over may also contribute an additional amount of their salary on a pre-tax tax basis up to the irs catch-up provision limit, or catch-up contributions. employees may also contribute into the 401(k) plan on an after-tax basis up to an annual maximum of 10%. the 401(k) plan has an automatic enrollment feature at 6% pre-tax. we match 50% of the first 6% of employee contributions to the plan for a maximum employer contribution of 3% of a participant's eligible earnings. the catch up contributions , are not eligible for employer matching contributions. the matching contributions portion of an employee's account, vests after two years of service. the plan also permits certain after-tax roth 401(k) contributions. additionally, at the end of the 401(k) plan year, we make a discretionary matching contribution to eligible participants. this additional discretionary matching employer contribution referred to as true up is limited to match only contributions up to 3% of eligible compensation. we also have various defined contribution plans for our international employees. our contribution to the 401(k) plan and our international defined contribution plans which are recorded in our consolidated statement of operations for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $9 million, $9 million, and $7 million, respectively. 104 tripadvisor, inc. deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors the company also has a deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (the plan ). under the plan, eligible directors who defer their directors' fees may elect to have such deferred fees (i) applied to the purchase of share units, representing the number of shares of our common stock that could have been purchased on the date such fees would otherwise be payable, or (ii) credited to a cash fund. the cash fund will be credited with interest at an annual rate equal to the weighted average prime or base lending rate of a financial institution selected in accordance with the terms of the plan and applicable law. upon termination of service as a director of tripadvisor, a director will receive (i) with respect to share units, such number of shares of our common stock as the share units represent, and (ii) with respect to the cash fund, a cash payment. payments upon termination will be made in either one lump sum or up to five annual installments, as elected by the eligible director at the time of the deferral election. under the 2011 incentive plan, 100,000 shares of tripadvisor common stock are available for issuance to non-employee directors. from the inception of the plan through december 31, 2017, a total of 3,336 shares have been reserved for such purpose. tripadvisor, inc. executive severance plan and summary plan description effective august 7, 2017, the company adopted an executive severance plan and summary plan description (the severance plan ) applicable to certain employees of the company and its subsidiaries. the severance plan formalizes and standardizes the company's severance practices for certain designated employees (each, a participant and, collectively, the participants ). participants covered by the severance plan generally will be eligible to receive severance benefits in the event of a termination by the company without cause or, under certain circumstances, by the participant for good reason. the severance benefits differ if there is a termination of employment in connection with a change in control. the severance benefits provided pursuant to the severance plan are determined based on the job classification of the participants (as reflected in internal job profile designations) and, in certain cases, their years of service with the company. under the severance plan, in the event of a termination by the company without cause more than three months prior to a change in control or more than twelve (12) months following a change in control, the severance benefits for the participant generally shall consist of the following: continued payment of base salary for a period of six to eighteen (18) months following the date of such participant's termination of employment; and continuation of coverage under the company's health insurance plan through the company's payment of cobra premiums for a period of six to eighteen (18) months following the date of such participant's termination of employment. under the severance plan, in the event of a termination by the company without cause or by the participant for good reason, in each case within three months prior to or twelve (12) months following a change in control, the severance benefits for the participant shall consist of the following: payment of a lump sum amount equal to (i) twelve (12) to twenty four (24) months of the participant's base salary, plus (ii) the participant's target bonus multiplied by 1, 1.5 or 2; and payment of a lump sum amount equal to the premiums required to continue the participant's medical coverage under the company's health insurance plan for a period of twelve (12) to twenty four (24) months. the foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the executive severance plan and summary plan description incorporated herein by reference as exhibit 10.22 to this annual report on form 10-k. during the year end december 31, 2017, we recorded $1 million of severance under the severance plan in our consolidated statement of operations. 105 note 15: stockholders' equity preferred stock in addition to common stock, we are authorized to issue up to 100 million preferred shares, with $ 0.001 par value per share, with terms determined by our board of directors, without further action by our stockholders. at december 31, 2017, no preferred shares had been issued. common stock and class b common stock our authorized common stock consists of 1.6 billion shares of common stock with par value of $0.001 per share, and 400 million shares of class b common stock with par value of $0.001 per share. both classes of common stock qualify for and share equally in dividends, if declared by our board of directors. common stock is entitled to one vote per share and class b common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share on most matters. holders of tripadvisor common stock, acting as a single class, are entitled to elect a number of directors equal to 25% percent of the total number of directors, rounded up to the next whole number, which was three directors as of december 31, 2017. class b common stockholders may, at any time, convert their shares into common stock, on a one for one share basis. upon conversion, the class b common stock is retired and is not available for reissue. in the event of liquidation, dissolution, distribution of assets or winding-up of tripadvisor the holders of both classes of common stock have equal rights to receive all the assets of tripadvisor after the rights of the holders of the preferred stock have been satisfied. there were 135,617,263 and 126,142,773 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, respectively, and 12,799,999 shares of class b common stock issued and outstanding at december 31, 2017. accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) accumulated other comprehensive loss is primarily comprised of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments, as follows for the periods presented: december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 (in millions) cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments (1) $ (42 ) $ (77 ) total accumulated other comprehensive loss (2) $ (42 ) $ (77 ) (1) due to our intention to indefinitely reinvest foreign subsidiary earnings; deferred taxes are not provided on foreign currency translation adjustments. (2) our accumulated net unrealized gain (loss) on available for sale securities was not material as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016. treasury stock on february 15, 2013, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of $250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we did not repurchase any shares of outstanding common stock under the share repurchase program. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we repurchased 2,002,356 shares of outstanding common stock under the share repurchase program at an average cost of $52.35 per share. as of december 31, 2016, we had repurchased a total of 4,123,065 shares of outstanding common stock under the share repurchase program at an average cost of $60.63 per share and completed our share repurchase program authorized by our board of directors. on january 25, 2017, our board of directors authorized an additional repurchase of $250 million of our shares of common stock under a new share repurchase program. our board of directors authorized and directed management, working with the executive committee of our board of directors to affect the share repurchase program in compliance with applicable legal requirements. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we repurchased a total of 6,079,003 shares of the company's outstanding common stock at an average share price of $41.13, or $250 million in the aggregate, and completed this share repurchase program. as of december 31, 2017, 106 there were 9,474,490 shares of the company's common stock held in treasury with an aggregate cost of $447 million. in december 2015, we issued 801,042 treasury shares to the foundation in settlement of all future pledge obligations. refer to note 17 segment and geographic information , for a discussion of this transaction. dividends during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, our board of directors did not declare any dividends on our outstanding common stock and do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. note 16: related party transactions relationship between expedia and tripadvisor upon consummation of the spin-off, expedia was considered a related party under gaap based on a number of factors, including, among others, common ownership of our shares and those of expedia. however, we no longer consider expedia a related party. for purposes of governing certain of the ongoing relationships between us and expedia at and after the spin-off, and to provide for an orderly transition, we and expedia entered into various agreements at the time of the spin-off, which tripadvisor has satisfied its obligations. however, tripadvisor continues to be subject to certain post-spin obligations under the tax sharing agreement. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. the full text of the tax sharing agreement is incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k as exhibit 10.2. refer to note 10 income taxes above for information regarding the status of completed and ongoing irs audits of our consolidated income tax returns with expedia to date. relationship between liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. and tripadvisor we consider liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. ( ltrip ) a related party. as of december 31, 2017, ltrip beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock, which constitute 14.4% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 22.3% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock generally is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 57.5% of our voting power. refer to note 1 organization and business description above, which describes the evolution of our relationship with ltrip. we had no related party transactions with ltrip during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 or 2015. note 17: segment and geographic information our reporting structure includes two reportable segments: hotel and non-hotel. 107 hotel our hotel segment includes revenue generated from the following sources: tripadvisor-branded click-based and transaction revenue. our largest source of hotel segment revenue is generated from click-based advertising on tripadvisor-branded websites, which is primarily comprised of contextually-relevant booking links to our travel partners' sites. our click-based travel partners are predominantly online travel agencies, or otas, and direct suppliers in the hotel category. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc , basis, with payments from advertisers determined by the number of users who click on a link multiplied by the price that partner is willing to pay for that click, or hotel shopper lead. cpc rates are determined in a dynamic, competitive auction process, or metasearch auction, that enables our partners to use our proprietary, automated bidding system to submit cpc bids to have their hotel rates and availability listed on our site. transaction revenue is generated from our instant booking feature, which enables the merchant of record, generally an ota or hotel partner, to pay a commission to tripadvisor for a user that completes a hotel reservation via our website. tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription revenue. travel partners can promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner through a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites. our display-based advertising clients are predominately direct suppliers of hotels, airlines and cruises, as well as destination marketing organizations. we also sell display-based advertising to otas and other travel related businesses, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. in addition, we offer subscription-based advertising to hotels, b&amp;bs and other specialty lodging properties. subscription advertising is predominantly sold for a flat fee and enables subscribers to enhance their listing, for a contracted period of time, on our tripadvisor-branded websites, including by posting special offers for travelers. other hotel revenue. our other hotel revenue primarily includes revenue from non-tripadvisor branded websites, such as www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, and www.onetime.com, which includes click-based advertising revenue, display-based advertising revenue, hotel room reservations sold through the websites, and advertising revenue from making cruise reservations available for price comparison and booking. non-hotel our non-hotel segment consists of the aggregation of three operating segments, our attractions, restaurants and vacation rentals businesses. attractions. we provide information and services for users to research, book and experience activities and attractions in popular travel destinations both through viator, our dedicated attractions business, and on our tripadvisor website and applications. we predominately generate commissions for each transaction we facilitate through our online reservation systems. in addition to its consumer-direct business, viator also powers activity and attractions booking capabilities for its affiliate partners, including some of the world's top airlines, hotel chains and online and offline travel agencies. viator's bookable activities and attractions are available on viator-branded websites and mobile applications and on tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile applications. restaurants. we provide information and services for users to research and book restaurants in popular travel destinations through our dedicated restaurant reservations business, thefork, and on our tripadvisor website and applications. thefork is an online restaurant booking platform operating on a number of websites (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.iens.nl and www.dimmi.com.au), with a network of restaurant partners located primarily across europe and australia. we generate reservation revenues that are paid by restaurants for diners seated through thefork's online reservation systems, and generate subscription fees for our online booking and marketing analytics tools provided by thefork and by tripadvisor. thefork's bookable restaurants are available on www.thefork.com and on tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile applications. 108 vacation rentals. we provide information and services for users to research and book vacation and short-term rental properties, including full home rentals, condominiums, villas, beach rentals, cabins and cottages. the vacation rentals business generates revenue pr imarily by offering individual property owners and property managers the ability to list their properties on our websites and mobile applications thereby connecting homeowners with travelers through a free-to-list, commission-based option and, to a lesser extent, by an annual subscription-based fee structure. these properties are listed on www.flipkey.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com , www.niumba.com, and www.vacationhomerentals.com , and on our tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile applications . our operating segments are determined based on how our chief operating decision maker manages our business, regularly assesses information and evaluates performance for operating decision-making purposes, including allocation of resources. the chief operating decision maker for the company is our ceo. adjusted ebitda is our segment profit measure and a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate the operating performance of our business and on which internal budgets and forecasts are based and approved. in particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted ebitda can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. accordingly, we believe that adjusted ebitda provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. we define adjusted ebitda as net income (loss) plus: (1) provision for income taxes; (2) other income (expense), net; (3) depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal use software and website development; (4) amortization of intangible assets; (5) stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations; (6) goodwill, long-lived asset and intangible asset impairments; and (7) non-recurring expenses and income. the following tables present our segment information for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, and includes a reconciliation of adjusted ebitda to net income. we record depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations, other income (expense), net, other non-recurring expenses and income, net, and income taxes, which are excluded from segment operating performance, in corporate and unallocated. in addition, we do not report our assets, capital expenditures and related depreciation expense by segment as our chief operating decision maker does not use this information to evaluate operating segments. accordingly, we do not regularly provide such information by segment to our chief operating decision maker. intersegment revenue is not material and, in addition, already eliminated in the information by segment provided to our chief operating decision maker. our consolidated general and administrative expenses, excluding stock-based compensation costs, are shared by all operating segments. each operating segment receives an allocated charge based on the segment's percentage of the company's total personnel costs. year ended december 31, 2017 hotel non-hotel corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,196 $ 360 $ $ 1,556 adjusted ebitda (1) 286 45 331 depreciation (79 ) (79 ) amortization of intangible assets (32 ) (32 ) stock-based compensation (96 ) (96 ) operating income 124 other expense, net (14 ) income before income taxes 110 provision for income taxes (2) (129 ) net loss $ (19 ) 109 year ended december 31, 2016 hotel non-hotel corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,190 $ 290 $ $ 1,480 adjusted ebitda (1) 380 (28 ) 352 depreciation (69 ) (69 ) amortization of intangible assets (32 ) (32 ) stock-based compensation (85 ) (85 ) operating income 166 other expense, net (15 ) income before income taxes 151 provision for income taxes (31 ) net income $ 120 year ended december 31, 2015 hotel non-hotel corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,263 $ 229 $ $ 1,492 adjusted ebitda (1) 472 (6 ) 466 depreciation (57 ) (57 ) amortization of intangible assets (36 ) (36 ) stock-based compensation (72 ) (72 ) non-cash charitable contribution (3) (67 ) (67 ) other non-recurring expenses (2 ) (2 ) operating income 232 other income, net 7 income before income taxes 239 provision for income taxes (41 ) net income $ 198 (1) includes allocated general and administrative expenses in our hotel segment of $81 million, $80 million and $85 million; and in our non-hotel segment of $42 million, $38 million and $28 million for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (2) the year ended december 31, 2017 reflects $67 million of transition tax and $6 million of tax expense recorded due to the remeasurement of net deferred tax assets related to the 2017 tax act enacted on december 22, 2017. refer to note 10 - income taxes for further information. (3) during the fourth quarter of 2015, we incurred an expense in the amount of $67 million to reflect a non-cash contribution to the tripadvisor charitable foundation (the foundation ), which was recorded to general and administrative expense in our consolidated statement of operations. tripadvisor had historically funded 2% of its annual operating income before amortization and stock-based compensation. tripadvisor's pledge agreement provided for an immediate satisfaction of all future annual contributions, by paying an amount equal to eight multiplied by tripadvisor's prior year contribution to the foundation. tripadvisor exercised this right under its pledge agreement in december 2015. we settled this obligation in treasury shares based on the fair value of our common stock on the date the treasury shares were issued to the foundation and therefore given the use of stock to settle the obligation, the amount has been excluded from adjusted ebitda. tripadvisor does not expect to make any future contributions to the foundation. 110 revenue and geographic information our revenue sources within our hotel segment, which are tripadvisor-branded click-based and transaction revenue, tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription revenue; and other hotel revenue, which along with our non-hotel revenue source, comprise our products. the following table presents revenue by source for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) tripadvisor-branded click-based and transaction $ 756 $ 750 $ 837 tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription 292 282 272 other hotel revenue 148 158 154 non-hotel revenue 360 290 229 total revenue $ 1,556 $ 1,480 $ 1,492 the following table presents revenue by geographic area, the united states, the united kingdom and all other countries, based on the geographic location of our websites for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) revenue united states $ 877 $ 799 $ 739 united kingdom 209 210 215 all other countries 470 471 538 total revenue $ 1,556 $ 1,480 $ 1,492 the following table presents property and equipment, net for the united states and all other countries based on the geographic location of the assets for the periods presented: december 31, 2017 2016 (in millions) property and equipment, net united states $ 219 $ 222 all other countries 44 38 total $ 263 $ 260 111 note 18: interest income and other, net the following table presents the detail of interest income and other, net, for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) net gain (loss), realized and unrealized, on foreign currency exchange and foreign currency derivative contracts and other, net $ 2 $ (4 ) $ (4 ) interest income 1 1 1 loss on cost method investment (2 ) gain on sale of business (1) 20 total $ 1 $ (3 ) $ 17 (1) refer to note 3 acquisitions and dispositions for information regarding our gain on sale of business in 2015. note 19: quarterly financial information (unaudited) the following table presents selected unaudited financial information for the eight quarters in the period ended december 31, 2017. the results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of future quarterly results and, accordingly, period to period comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. three months ended march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 (in millions, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2017 revenue $ 372 $ 424 $ 439 $ 321 operating income 27 46 42 9 net income (loss) (1) 13 27 25 (84 ) basic earnings (loss) per share (2) $ 0.09 $ 0.19 $ 0.18 $ (0.60 ) diluted earnings (loss) per share (2) $ 0.09 $ 0.19 $ 0.18 $ (0.60 ) year ended december 31, 2016 revenue $ 352 $ 391 $ 421 $ 316 operating income 42 47 66 10 net income 29 34 55 1 basic earnings per share (2) $ 0.20 $ 0.23 $ 0.38 $ 0.01 diluted earnings per share (2) $ 0.20 $ 0.23 $ 0.37 $ 0.01 (1) (2) during the fourth quarter of 2017, we recognized $67 million of transition tax and $6 million of tax expense recorded for the remeasurement of our net deferred tax assets related to the 2017 tax act enacted on december 22, 2017. refer to note 10 - income taxes for further information. earnings per share is computed independently for each of the quarters presented. therefore, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share may not equal the total computed for the year. note 20: subsequent events on january 31, 2018, tripadvisor's board of directors authorized up to $250 million of share repurchases. our board of directors authorized and directed management, working with the executive committee of our board of directors, to affect the share repurchase program in compliance with applicable legal requirements. this new repurchase program has no expiration but may be suspended or terminated by the board of directors at any time. on february 2, 2018, the company made a one-time repatriation of $325 million of foreign earnings to the united states primarily to repay outstanding borrowings under the 2015 credit facility. the remaining outstanding borrowings under the 2015 credit facility was subsequently repaid by the company. 112 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a . controls and procedures evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures as of december 31, 2017, our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act. based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer concluded that, as of december 31, 2017, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the exchange act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the securities and exchange commission's, or the sec's, rules and forms, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. changes in internal control over financial reporting there were no changes to our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended december 31, 2017 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. management's report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rule 13a-15(f) of the exchange act. internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. under the supervision and with the participation of the company's management, including the chief executive officer and president and the chief financial officer, the company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management evaluated the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017. pursuant to exchange act rule 13a-15(d) or 15d-15(d), management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2017, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. management has reviewed its assessment with the audit committee. kpmg llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017, as stated in their report which is included below. limitations on effectiveness of controls and procedures management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. 113 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the stockholders and board of directors tripadvisor, inc.: opinion on internal control over financial reporting we have audited tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries' (the company ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) ( pcaob ), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2017, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements), and our report dated february 21, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. basis for opinion the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 114 because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in condit ions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. /s/ kpmg llp boston, massachusetts february 21, 2018 115 item 9b . other information effective february 19, 2018, the company entered into an amendment to employment agreement with respect to the employment agreement of seth kalvert, general counsel and senior vice president, to, among other things, provide that: - the term of mr. kalvert's employment will be extended to march 31, 2021; - upon a termination of employment without cause or resignation for good reason not in connection with a change in control, the company will continue to pay mr. kalvert's base salary through the longer of (x) 12 months following such termination date, and (y) the remaining term of the employment up to a maximum of 18 months; and - a non-renewal of the employment agreement or expiration of the term will be treated as a termination of employment without cause or resignation for good reason not in connection with a change of control, entitling mr. kalvert's to benefits under his employment agreement. the foregoing description of the amendment to employment agreement is summary in nature and is qualified in its entirety by the text of the amendment to employment agreement filed as an exhibit to this annual report. terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the amendment to employment agreement and/or the underlying employment agreement, as appropriate. part iii item 10 . directors, executive officers and corporate governance the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2018 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2017. item 11 . executive compensation the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2018 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2017. item 12 . security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2018 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2017. item 13 . certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2018 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2017. 116 item 14 . principal accounting fees and services the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2018 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2017. part iv item 15 . exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) the following is filed as part of this annual report on form 10-k: 1. consolidated financial statements : the consolidated financial statements and report of independent registered public accounting firms required by this item are included in part ii,risk factors 10 "risk factors". moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. we caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. we expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on form 10-q for future periods and current reports on form 8-k as we file them with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or the sec, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through current reports on form 8-k or otherwise. 1 pa rt i item 1. business overview tripadvisor is an online travel company and our mission is to help people around the world to plan, book and experience the perfect trip. we seek to achieve our mission by providing consumers and travel partners a global platform with rich consumer-generated content, price comparison tools and online reservation and related services for destinations, accommodations, travel activities and experiences, and restaurants. tripadvisor, inc., by and through its subsidiaries, owns and operates a portfolio of leading online travel brands. our flagship brand, tripadvisor, is the world's largest travel site based on monthly unique visitors, which reached 490 million average monthly unique visitors during our seasonal peak during the year ended december 31, 2018, according to our internal log files. our tripadvisor-branded websites include www.tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the tripadvisor website in 48 markets and 28 languages worldwide. tripadvisor features approximately 730 million reviews and opinions on approximately 8.1 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do including 1.3 million hotels, inns, b&amp;bs and specialty lodging, 875,000 rental properties, 4.9 million restaurants and 1.0 million travel activities and experiences worldwide. we also enable consumers to compare prices and/or book a number of these travel experiences on either a tripadvisor website or mobile application ( app ), or on the website or mobile app of one of our travel partners. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we manage and operate the following other travel media brands, connected by the common goal of providing consumers the most comprehensive travel-planning and trip-taking resources in the travel industry: www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bokun.io, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, and www.iens.nl), www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.housetrip.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.smartertravel.com, www.tingo.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and www.viator.com. our industry and market opportunity we operate in the global travel industry, focusing exclusively on online travel and travel-related activity, and the online advertising market. phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, estimates the annual global travel market at $1.7 trillion. phocuswright also estimates online penetration of global travel bookings to be less than 50%. however, travel bookings have been moving online as consumers gain access to the internet and global tourism activity continues to increase, driven by middle class and economic growth. tripadvisor, as an internet-enabled travel-focused business, allows consumers to research travel activity and share their experiences and opinions with a global audience. as consumer online travel media consumption and online travel commerce activity increases, we believe travel and travel-related businesses will continue to allocate greater percentages of their marketing budgets to online channels in order to grow their businesses. we believe this creates a significant long-term growth opportunity for our business. our business model our businesses match demand, or consumers that seek to discover, research, price compare and book the best travel experiences online with supply from travel partners around the world that provide travel accommodations and experiences. consumer offerings tripadvisor enables consumers to plan, book and experience the perfect trip by providing content, supply, price, and convenience. content and supply has enabled tripadvisor to become a well-known global brand, one that has attracted the world's largest travel audience, based on average monthly unique visitors , and influences a 2 significant amount of travel commerce. we are focused on creating the best online experience in travel planning and booking, making it easier for consumers to research destinations and experiences, read and contribute user-generated content, compare destinations and businesses based on quality, price and availability, and c omplete bookings powered by our travel partners . travel partners our portfolio of travel-related websites enables our travel partners to be discovered, to advertise and to sell their services to a global travel audience. travel partners may include hotel chains, independent hoteliers, online travel agencies, or otas, destination marketing organizations, and other travel-related and non-travel related product and service providers who seek to market and sell their products and services to a global audience. we enable media advertising opportunities and in some cases, facilitate transactions between consumers and travel partners in a number of ways, including by sending referrals to our travel partners' websites, facilitating bookings on behalf of our travel partners, by serving as the merchant of record particularly in our experiences and rentals offerings and by offering advertising placements on our websites and mobile apps. segments and products we manage our business in two reportable segments: hotel and non-hotel. our non-hotel reportable segment consists of our experiences, restaurants and rentals offerings. during the first quarter of 2018, we renamed attractions as experiences and vacation rentals as rentals. these changes had no impact on the composition of our segments or on any financial information. these segments have been determined based on how the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information and evaluates performance for operating decision-making purposes, including allocation of resources. financial information and additional descriptive information related to our segments is contained in note 18: segment and geographic information and note 4: revenue recognition, in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 on this annual report on form 10-k. the hotel segment accounted for 72%, 77%, and 80%, of our consolidated revenue in the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and includes revenue generated from the following sources: tripadvisor-branded click-based and transaction revenue. our largest source of hotel segment revenue is generated from click-based advertising on tripadvisor-branded websites, which is primarily comprised of contextually-relevant links to our travel partners' sites. our click-based travel partners are predominantly otas and direct suppliers in the hotel category. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc basis, with payments from travel partners determined by the number of travelers who click on a link multiplied by the cpc rate for each specific click. cpc rates that our travel partners pay are determined in a dynamic, competitive auction process, also known as our metasearch auction. transaction revenue is generated from our hotel instant booking feature, which enables hotel shoppers to book directly on tripadvisor through a travel partner, with the latter serving as the merchant of record for the transaction. we earn a pre-determined commission rate from our travel partners for each consumer that completes a hotel reservation on our website or app . tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription revenue. travel partners can promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner through a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites. our display-based advertising clients are predominantly direct suppliers of hotels, air travel and cruises, as well as destination marketing organizations. other display clients include otas and other travel-related businesses, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. we also offer subscription-based advertising to hoteliers, owners of b&amp;bs and other specialty lodging properties, enabling subscribers to advertise their businesses on our website, as well as manage and promote their website url, email address, phone number, special offers and other information related to their business. subscription advertising services are predominantly sold for a flat fee for a contracted period of time of one year or less . other hotel revenue. our other hotel revenue primarily includes revenue from non-tripadvisor-branded websites, such as www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.onetime.com, and 3 www.smartertravel.com , which primarily includes click-based advertising and display-based ad vertising revenue sources, as described above. non-hotel offerings experiences, restaurants and rentals have comprised an increasing percentage of consumer demand and consolidated revenue. our non-hotel reportable segment accounted for 28%, 23%, and 20% of our consolidated revenue in the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and includes revenue generated from the following sources: experiences. we provide information and services for consumers to research, book and travel activities and experiences in popular travel destinations both through viator, our dedicated experiences offering, and on our tripadvisor website and app. we also power travel activities and experience booking capabilities to consumers on affiliate partner websites, including some of the world's top airlines, hotel chains and online and offline travel agencies. we work with local tour or travel activities/experiences operators (the supplier ) to provide consumers with access to tours, activities and experiences (the activity ) in popular destinations worldwide. we generate commissions for each booking transaction we facilitate through our online reservation system. to a lesser extent, we earn commissions from third-party merchant partners, which display and promote our supplier activities on their websites to generate bookings . restaurants. we provide information and services for consumers to research and book restaurants in popular travel destinations through our dedicated restaurant reservations offering, thefork, and on our tripadvisor websites and mobile apps. thefork is an online restaurant booking platform operating on a number of websites (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, and www.iens.nl), with a network of restaurant partners located primarily across europe and australia. our bookable restaurants are available on www.thefork.com and on tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. we primarily generate transaction fees (or per seated diner fees) that are paid by restaurants for diners seated primarily from bookings through thefork's online reservation system. to a lesser extent, we also generate subscription fees for subscription-based advertising to restaurants, access to certain online reservation management services and marketing analytic tools provided by thefork and tripadvisor . rentals . we provide information and services for consumers to research and book vacation and short-term rental properties, including full home rentals, condominiums, villas, beach rentals, cabins and cottages. our rentals offering generates revenue primarily by offering individual property owners and managers the ability to list their properties on our websites and mobile apps thereby connecting homeowners with travelers through a free-to-list, commission-based option or, to a lesser extent, by an annual subscription-based fee structure. these properties are listed on www.flipkey.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com, www.niumba.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and on our tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. seasonality traveler expenditures in the global travel market tend to follow a seasonal pattern. as such, advertising investments made by travel partners to market to potential travelers and, therefore, our revenue and profits tend to be seasonal as well. our financial performance tends to be seasonally highest in the second and third quarters of a year, as it is a key period for leisure travel research and trip-taking, which includes the seasonal peak in traveler hotel and rental stays, and travel activities and experiences taken, compared to the first and fourth quarters which represent seasonal low points. further significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends. our long-term growth strategy our mission is to help people around the world plan, book and experience the perfect trip. we seek to deliver on this mission by: increasing and leveraging our rich, user-generated content and global brand to attract consumers to our websites and mobile apps; delivering the best consumer experience throughout all phases of the travel journey from inspiration and travel-planning to trip-taking and sharing the experience; deepening our relationships with travel partners by providing them an array of advertising opportunities to generate qualified leads, or hotel shoppers 4 we pass along to travel partners ; and investing in technology, product development, marketing and other strategic areas that we believe can improve the tripadvis or experience and improve our long-term business prospects. drive consumer engagement with our platform. tripadvisor is a globally-recognized travel brand built on travel reviews and travel research. a large, global travel audience leverages tripadvisor's rich content to discover, plan, and book travel experiences. we seek to further amplify our global brand by raising consumer awareness for and engagement with our end-to-end product offerings, such as the ability to seamlessly research, price compare, book and share travel experiences on our platform. we believe building deeper, more durable consumer relationships can attract more consumers more frequently to our products, either directly to our websites and mobile apps or through various online and offline marketing channels, and that these consumers will then become qualified leads that we can provide to our partners. these channels include search engines through search engine optimization, or seo, and search engine marketing, or sem, retargeting and television, or brand advertising. deliver the best consumer experience possible on our platform. we believe delivering consumers a more holistic, end-to-end product experience is critically important for the long-term health of our business. we have invested and will continue to invest in product enhancements that ensure tripadvisor gives consumers an assistive experience throughout all phases of the travel journey from inspiration and discovery, to researching, price shopping and booking, to finding and booking things to do and places to eat, to sharing. deepen relationships with our travel partners. our large, global audience makes it an attractive platform for listing and advertising opportunities that helps generate impressions, brand awareness, qualified leads and bookings for travel partners. we believe that growing the number of listings and bookable supply, especially in our in-destination experiences and restaurants offerings, enables consumers not only to find and book the perfect trip, but also enables partners to drive transactions for their business. we also provide business-to-business services including subscription-based advertising services, such as tripadvisor's business advantage for hoteliers and premium for restaurants, which are advertising opportunities and marketing analytics tools that are designed to help our partners attract customers, more effectively manage their presence on tripadvisor, and grow their business. invest in technology and product. we prioritize rapid product-testing and speed to market as we seek to deliver consumers a richer experience. we launch new product features on our websites and mobile apps on a regular product release cycle. also, during the year ended december 31, 2018, more than half of our average monthly unique visitors came from mobile phones, according to our log files. we have invested and will continue to invest to improve the features, functionality, consumer engagement, and commercialization of our offerings on all devices to meet, and hopefully, exceed, evolving consumer needs and expectations. marketing and competition we compete in a large, dynamic and competitive global travel industry. we face competition for content, consumers, and advertisers from other online travel and price comparison services (known in the industry as metasearch ), as well as otas. in order to favorably attract consumers to our websites and mobile apps, we invest to amplify our global brand and raise consumer awareness of, and engagement with, our end-to-end product offerings. we invest through various marketing channels, including domain direct and various online and offline marketing channels, including online search engines (primarily google), social media, emails and in more recent years, through television brand advertising. the relative success of our marketing strategy can be influenced by changes that we, our partners, or our competitors make to our respective products and marketing strategies. during 2018, our total advertising expense was approximately $544 million, primarily driven by investments in online search engines, and to a lesser extent, investments in offline marketing channels, which was primarily television advertising. we intend to continue to promote brand awareness through both online and offline advertising efforts. we compete with different types of companies in the various markets and geographies in which we operate, including large and small companies in the travel space as well as broader service providers. more specifically: in our hotel segment, we face competition from, and in some cases partner with, the following businesses: otas (including expedia group, inc., or expedia, and booking holdings inc., or booking, 5 and many of their respective subsidiaries and operating companies); hotel metasearch providers (including trivago, a subsidiary of expedia, kayak and hotelscombined, subs idiaries of booking, and ctrip.com international, ltd); large online search, social media, and marketplace platforms and companies (including google, facebook, microsoft's bing, yahoo, baidu, alibaba, and amazon); and traditional offline travel agencies; a nd global hotel chains seeking to promote direct bookings. in our non-hotel segment, experiences competes with online travel agencies, such as airbnb, booking, and getyourguide; traditional travel agencies; online travel service providers; and wholesalers, among others. our restaurants offering competes with other online restaurant reservation services, such as seatme (owned by yelp) and opentable (a subsidiary of booking), and local or regional providers. our rentals offering competes with companies focused on alternative lodging and shared accommodations and online accommodation searches, including airbnb, homeaway (a subsidiary of expedia) and booking.com (a subsidiary of booking). as the industry continues to shift towards online travel services and the technology supporting it continues to evolve, we anticipate that the existing competitive landscape will continue to change, new competitors may emerge, and industry consolidation may continue. commercial relationships we have a number of commercial relationships that are important to the success of our business. although these relationships are memorialized in agreements, many of these agreements are for limited terms or are terminable at will or on short notice. as a result, we seek to ensure the mutual success of these relationships. we have commercial relationships with the majority of the world's leading otas, as well as a variety of other travel partners pursuant to which these companies primarily purchase traveler leads from us, generally on a click-based advertising basis. for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 our two most significant travel partners were expedia (and its subsidiaries) and booking (and its subsidiaries), each of which accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and together accounted for approximately 37%, 43% and 46% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. nearly all of this concentration of revenue is recorded in our hotel segment for these reporting periods. operations and technology we have assembled a team of highly skilled software engineers, computer scientists, data scientists, network engineers and systems engineers whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas, including a wide variety of open source operating systems, databases, languages, analytics, networking, scalable web architecture, operations and warehousing technologies. we make significant investments in product and feature development, data management, personalization technologies, scalable infrastructures, networking, data warehousing, and search engine technologies. our systems infrastructure and web and database servers for tripadvisor-branded websites are housed at two geographically separate facilities and have multiple communication links as well as continuous monitoring and engineering support. each facility is fully self-sufficient and operational with its own hardware, networking, software and content, and is structured in an active/passive, fully redundant configuration. substantially all of our software components, data, and content are replicated in multiple datacenters and development centers, as well as being backed up at offsite locations. our systems are monitored and protected though multiple layers of security. several of our individual subsidiaries and businesses, including viator, have their own data infrastructure and technology teams. intellectual property our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology and trade secrets, is an important component of our business. we rely on our intellectual property rights in our content, proprietary technology, software code, ratings indexes, databases of reviews and forum content. we 6 have acquired some of our intellectual property rights through licenses and content agreements with third parti es and these arrangements may place restrictions on the use of our intellectual property. we protect our intellectual property by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions, as well as on international, national, federal, state and common law rights. we protect our brands by pursuing the trademark registration of our core brands, as appropriate, maintaining our trademark portfolio, securing contractual trademark rights protection when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. we also register copyrights and domain names as deemed appropriate. additionally, we protect our trademarks, domain names and copyrights with the use of intellectual property licenses and an enforcement program. we have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future inventions, as circumstances may warrant. however, many patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us. in connection with our copyrightable content, we post and institute procedures under the u.s. digital millennium copyright act and similar host privilege statutes worldwide to gain immunity from copyright liability for photographs, text and other content loaded on our sites by users. however, differences between statutes, limitations on immunity, and moderation efforts in the many jurisdictions in which we operate may affect our ability to claim immunity. from time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement by us of the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights of third parties. in addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. any such litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could materially harm our business. regulation we are subject to a number of laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet and relating to the travel industry, the vacation rental industry and the provision of travel services. as we continue to expand the reach of our brands into additional international markets, we are increasingly subject to additional laws and regulations. this includes laws and regulations regarding, among other matters, consumer privacy, libel, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, taxation, online payment services, competition and protection of minors. these laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. many of these laws and regulations are being tested in courts, and could be interpreted by regulators and courts in ways that could harm our business. in addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations is often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate. in addition, we provide advertising data and information and conduct marketing activities that are subject to consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices, domestically and internationally, including, in some countries, pricing display requirements, licensing and registration requirements and industry specific value-added tax regimes. the united states and european union have adopted legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online editorial and user-generated content, data privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, and liability for third-party activities. it is impossible to accurately predict how this new legislation will be interpreted and applied or whether new taxes or regulations will be imposed on our services, and whether or how we might be affected. increased regulation of the internet could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operational results. 7 we are subject to laws that require protection of user privacy and user data. as our business has evolved, we have begun to receive and store a greater volume of personally identifiable data . this data is increasingly subject to laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. for example, the european union, in may 2018, adopted the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which requires companies, including ours, to meet enhanced requirements regarding the handling of personal data. the enactment, interpretation and application of this law is still in a stat e of flux, and the interpretation and application of gdpr may vary from country to country. in addition, imilar laws are currently under discussion in other jurisdictions. also, on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom passed a referendum to exit the european union, known as brexit. since the terms of the united kingdom's exit from the european union are uncertain, we are unable to predict the effect brexit will have on our business and results of operations; however, we will likely face new regulatory costs and challenges if the u.k. regulations diverge from those of the european union. corporate history, equity ownership and voting control tripadvisor was co-founded in february 2000 by stephen kaufer, our current chief executive officer and president. in april 2004, tripadvisor was acquired by iac/interactivecorp, or iac. in august 2005, iac spun-off its portfolio of travel brands, including tripadvisor, into expedia, at the time a separate newly-formed delaware corporation. on december 20, 2011 expedia completed a spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly-traded delaware corporation. we refer to this second spin-off transaction as the spin-off. following the spin-off, on december 21, 2011, tripadvisor began trading on the nasdaq global select market, or nasdaq, as an independent public company under the trading symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates. as a result, liberty beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip. simultaneously, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. we refer to this transaction as the liberty spin-off . as a result of the liberty spin-off, effective august 27, 2014, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor. as a result of these transactions, as of december 31, 2018, ltrip beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock, which constitute 14.5% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 22.5% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 57.7% of our voting power. employees as of december 31, 2018, we had 3,366 employees. of these employees, approximately half of these employees were based in the united states. we believe we have good relationships with our employees, including relationships with employees represented by international works councils or other similar organizations. additional information we maintain a corporate website at ir.tripadvisor.com. except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the sec. 8 on our investor relations website ( http://ir.tripadvisor.com/investor-relations ) , we provide our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to these reports free of charge. these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or f urnish these reports to the sec or publish through press releases, public conference calls and certain webcasts. all documents filed electronically with the sec (including reports, proxy and information statements and other information) are also available at www.sec.gov . investors and others should be aware that we use our investor relations website ( http://ir.tripadvisor.com/investor-relations ) to announce material financial information to our in vestors as well as communicate with the public about our company, our results of operations and other information . we post our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers, senior financial officers and directors, on our corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. we intend to disclose any waivers of the code of ethics for our executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, on our corporate website. 9 ite m 1a. risk factors you should consider carefully the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report as they may impact our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations or financial condition. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. risks related to our business and industry if we are unable to continue to increase visitors to our websites and mobile apps, to cost-effectively convert these visitors into revenue-generating users and to continue to engage our users, our revenue, financial results and business could be harmed. our long term success depends on our continued ability to increase the overall number of visitors flowing through our platforms in a cost-effective manner, to convert those visitors into consumers and then to continue to engage those consumers throughout the travel planning, booking and trip-taking phases. our traffic and user engagement could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to, increased competition; inability to provide quality content, inventory or supply to our consumers; declines or inefficiencies in traffic acquisition; reduced awareness of our brands; and macroeconomic conditions. certain of our competitors have advertising campaigns expressly designed to drive traffic directly to their websites, and these campaigns may negatively impact traffic to our site. we anticipate that traffic growth could decline over time, and potentially even decrease in certain periods, as our business matures, and that our success will become increasingly dependent on our ability to increase levels of user engagement on our platform. there can be no assurances that we will continue to provide content and products in a manner that meets rapidly changing demand. any failure to obtain and manage content and products in a cost-effective manner that will engage users, or any failure to provide content and products that are perceived as useful, reliable and trustworthy, could adversely affect user experiences and their repeat behavior, reduce traffic to our websites and negatively impact our business and financial performance. we rely on internet search engines and application marketplaces to drive traffic to our platform, certain providers of which offer products and services that compete directly with our products. if links to our websites and apps are not displayed prominently, traffic to our platform could decline and our business would be negatively affected. we rely heavily on internet search engines, such as google, to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords (what is also known as search engine marketing, or sem) as well as through free, or organic, search (what is also known as search engine optimization, or seo). the number of consumers we attract from search engines to our platform is due in large part to how and where information from, and links to, our websites are displayed on search engine results pages. the display, including rankings, of search results can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not in our control and may change frequently. search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of the results of a user's search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. in addition, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our websites to place lower in search query results. if a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our websites or those of our partners, or if competitive dynamics impact the cost or effectiveness of seo or sem in a negative manner, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected. furthermore, our failure to successfully manage our seo and sem strategies and/or other traffic acquisition strategies could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our websites, as well as increased costs to the extent we replace free traffic with paid traffic. in some instances, search and metasearch companies and application marketplaces may change their displays or rankings in order to promote their own competing products or services or the products or services of one or more of our competitors. google in particular is the most significant source of traffic to our website, accounting for a 10 substantial portion of the visits to our websites and our success depends on our ability to maintain a prominent presence in search results for queries regarding local businesses on google. google frequently promotes its own competing products in its web search resu lts, which has negatively impacted the search ranking of our website. google's promotion of its own competing products, or similar actions by google in the future that have the effect of reducing our prominence or ranking on its search results, could have a substantial negative effect on our business and results of operations. we also rely on application marketplaces, or app stores such as apple's app store and google's play, to drive downloads of our applications. in the future, apple, google or other marketplace operators may make changes to their marketplaces that make access to our products more difficult. for example, google has entered various aspects of the online travel market, including by establishing a flight metasearch product and hotel metasearch product as well as reservation functionality. our applications may receive unfavorable treatment compared to the promotion and placement of competing applications, such as the order in which they appear within marketplaces. similarly, if problems arise in our relationships with providers of application marketplaces, traffic to our site and our user growth could be harmed. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from advertising and any significant reduction in spending by advertisers or redirections of advertising spend could harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based and subscription-based advertising. we enter into advertising contracts with our advertising partners; however, the agreement terms are generally limited to legal matters, with campaign details and economics governed by insertion orders, and most of these contracts can be terminated by our partners at will or on short notice. our ability to grow advertising revenue with our existing or new advertising partners is dependent in large part on our ability to generate revenue for them relative to other alternatives. advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in such advertising does not generate sales leads, customers, bookings, or revenue and profit on a cost-effective basis. our ability to provide value to our advertising partners depends on a number of factors, including effectiveness of online advertising, competitiveness of our products, traffic quality, perception of our platform, availability and accuracy of analytics and measurement solutions to demonstrate our value, and macroeconomic conditions, whether in the advertising industry generally, among specific types of marketers or within particular geographies. we cannot guarantee that our current advertisers will fulfill their obligations under existing contracts, continue to advertise beyond the terms of existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts with us. in addition, advertising revenue could be impacted by a number of other factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our inability to increase or maintain user engagement, including time spent on our platform; our inability to increase or maintain the quantity and quality of ads shown to consumers, including as a result of technical infrastructure constraints; the development of technologies that can block the display of our ads or block our ad measurement tools, particularly for advertising displayed on tablets and/or on mobile platforms; the effectiveness of our ad targeting or degree to which consumers opt out of certain types of ad targeting; adverse government actions or legal developments relating to advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments and developments in litigation that limit our ability to deliver or target advertising, particularly in mobile devices; and the impact of macroeconomic conditions, whether in the advertising industry in general or among special types of marketers or within particular geographies. the occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, or cause marketers to stop advertising with us altogether, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and financial results. 11 click-based advertising revenue accounts for the majority of our advertisin g revenue. our cpc pricing for click-based advertising depends, in part, on competition between advertisers. if our large advertisers become less competitive with each other, merge with each other or with our competitors, focus more on per-click profit tha n on traffic volume, or are able to reduce cpcs, this could have an adverse impact on our click-based advertising revenue which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a relatively small number of significant advertising partners and any reduction in spending by or loss of these partners could seriously harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of advertising partners and rely significantly on our relationships. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2018, our two most significant advertising partners, expedia and booking (and their subsidiaries), accounted for a combined 37% of total revenue. while we enter into master advertising contracts with our partners, as discussed above, most of these contracts can be terminated by our partners at will or on short notice. if any of our significant advertisers were to cease or significantly curtail advertising on our websites, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenue over a relatively short period of time which would have a material impact on our business. our business depends on a strong brand and any failure to maintain, protect and enhance our brand could hurt our ability to retain and expand our base of consumers and partners, as well as increase the frequency with which consumers utilize our products and services. we believe that the strength of our brands (particularly the tripadvisor brand) has contributed significantly to our success. we also believe that maintaining, protecting and enhancing our brands is critical to expanding our base of consumers, increasing the frequency with which consumers utilize our solutions and attracting advertisers and business partners. our ability to maintain and protect our brand depends, in part, on our ability to maintain consumer trust in our products and in the quality, integrity, reliability of usefulness of the user content and other information found on our platform. if consumers do not view our reviews to be useful and reliable, they may seek other sources to obtain the information they are looking for and may not return to our platform as often in the future, or at all. this would negatively impact our ability to attract and retain consumers and partners and the frequency with which they use our platform. we dedicate significant resources to these goals, primarily through our computer algorithms and teams of moderators that are focused on identifying inappropriate, unreliable or deceptive content. we remove those types of content from our website and, in certain cases, take legal action against individuals or businesses that we believe have engaged in deceptive practices. media, legislative, or regulatory scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, content, advertising, and other issues may adversely affect our reputation and brands. negative publicity about our company, including our content, technology, business practices or strategic plans, could diminish our reputation and confidence in our brand, thereby negatively affecting the use of our products. for example, certain media outlets have alleged that we have improperly filtered or screened reviews, that we have not properly verified reviews, or that we manipulate reviews, ranking and ratings in favor of our advertisers against non-advertisers. we expend significant resources to ensure the integrity of our reviews and to ensure that the most relevant reviews are available to our consumers; we do not establish rankings and ratings in favor of our advertisers. nevertheless, our reputation and brand, the traffic to our platform and our business may suffer from negative publicity about our company or if consumers otherwise perceive that our content is manipulated or biased. in addition, regulatory inquiries or investigations require management time and attention and could result in further negative publicity, regardless of their merits or ultimate outcomes. in addition, unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our practices relating to privacy and data protection, product changes, competitive pressures, litigation or regulatory activity, could adversely affect our reputation with our consumers and our partners. such negative publicity also could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement, and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue. 12 we continue to invest significant time and effort towards educating users about our brand and our product offerings and there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful. in an effort to enhance our brand we invest significantly in brand marketing including, but not limited to, television advertising. we expect these investments to continue, and potentially even increase, as a result of a variety of factors, including relatively high levels of advertising spending by competitors, the increasing costs of supporting multiple brands, expansion into new geographies, product positioning where our brands are less well known, and the continued emergence and relative traffic share growth of search engines as destination sites for travelers. we expect to continue our television advertising campaign and to adjust our marketing efforts and spend among the different marketing channels, in each case as we think appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment in the different segments and businesses in which we operate. such efforts may not maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective or as efficient as they have been historically. if we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands or to generate demand in a cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. in addition, there are no assurances that these actions will have a positive impact on our marketing efficiencies or operating margins or when the financial benefit expected to result from these efforts will exceed the costs of such efforts. furthermore, some of our current and potential competitors have access to significantly greater and more diverse resources than we do, and they may also be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses to enable them to compete more effectively with us. consumer use of platforms other than desktop computers creates new challenges. if we are unable to operate effectively on these platforms or our products for such devices are not compelling, our business may be adversely affected. the number of people who access the internet through devices other than desktop computers, including mobile phones, tablets, handheld computers, voice-assisted speakers, television set-top devices and automobiles, continues to increase. we anticipate that the rate of use of these devices will continue to grow and that usage through desktop computers may continue to decline. the functionality and user experience associated with these alternative devices, such as a smaller screen size or lack of a screen, may make the use of our platform through such devices more difficult than through a desktop computer. for example, mobile phone devices monetize at a significantly lower rate than desktops and advertising opportunities are more limited on these mobile devices. additionally, consumer purchasing patterns differ on alternative devices. for example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. mobile consumers may also be unwilling to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing similar services or contribute high quality content through such devices. as a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps and brand recognition are likely to become increasingly important. we expect that the ways in which consumers engage with our platform will continue to change over time as consumers increasingly engage via alternative devices. this may make it more difficult or more expensive to develop products that consumers find useful or provide them with the information they seek, and may also negatively affect our content if consumers do not continue to contribute high quality content through such devices. in order to attract and retain engaged consumers, we must continue to extend our platform to drive adoption of and user engagement on other devices (in particular, our mobile platform) and the products and services we offer on such devices must be compelling. as new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our products and services to them and developing competitive new products and services - and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such products. our success will also depend on the interoperability of our products with a range of technologies, systems, networks and standards or in creating, maintaining and developing relationships with key participants in related industries, some of which may be our competitors. for example, google's android and apple's iphone are the leading smartphones in the world. therefore, our products need to synergistically function on their respective operating systems in order to create a positive user experience on a mobile device. however, google could leverage its android operating system to give its travel services a competitive advantage, either technically or with prominence on its google play app store or within its mobile search results. similarly, apple obtained a patent 13 for itravel, a mobile app that would allow a traveler to check in for a travel reservation. in ad dition, apple' ip hone operating system includes wal let, a virtual wallet app that holds tickets, boarding passes, coupons and gift cards, and, along with itra vel, may be indicative of apple' intent to enter the travel reservations business in some capa city. apple has substantial market share in the smartphone category and controls integration of offerings, including travel services, into its mobile operating system. apple also has more experience producing and developing mobile apps and has access to gr eater resources than we do . apple may use or expa nd itravel, wallet, siri (apple's voice recognition concierge serv ice), apple pay (apple' mobile payment system) or another mobile app or functionality as a means of entering the travel reservations marke tplace. to the extent google or apple use their mobile operating systems, app distribution channels or, in the case of google, search services, to favor their own travel service offerings, there may be an adverse effect on our ability to complete in the mo bile space. we may not be successful in developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks and standards or in creating, maintaining and developing relationships with key participants in related industries. if we exper ience difficulties or increased costs in integrating our products into alternative devices, or if manufacturers elect not to include our products in their devices, make changes that degrade the functionality of our products, give preferential treatment to competitive products or prevent us from delivering advertising , our user growth and operating results may be harmed. this risk may be exacerbated by the frequency with which consumers c hange or upgrade their devices. i n the event consumers choose devices that do not already include or support our platform or do not install our products when they change or upgrade their devices, our traffic and user engagement may be harmed . in addition, the market for advertising products on mobile and other devices is rapidly evolving. as new devices and platforms are released, consumers may begin consuming content in a manner that is more difficult to monetize. similarly, as advertising products for mobile and other platforms develop, demand may increase for products that we do not offer or that may alienate our user base, which we must balance against our commitment to prioritizing the quality of user experience over short-term monetization. if we are not able to balance these competing considerations successfully to develop compelling advertising products, advertisers may stop or reduce their advertising with us and we may not be able to generate meaningful revenue from alternative devices despite the expected growth in their usage. declines or disruptions in the economy in general and travel industry in particular could adversely affect our businesses and financial performance. our businesses and financial performance are affected by the health of the global economy generally as well as the travel industry and leisure travel in particular. sales of travel services tend to decline or grow more slowly during economic downturns and recessions when consumers engage in less discretionary spending, are concerned about unemployment or economic weakness, have reduced access to credit or experience other concerns that reduce their ability or willingness to travel. the global economy may be adversely impacted by unforeseen events beyond our control including incidents of actual or threatened terrorism, regional hostilities or instability, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters, political instability and health concerns (including epidemics or pandemics), defaults on government debt, significant increases in fuel and energy costs, tax increases and other matters that could reduce discretionary spending, tightening of credit markets and further declines in consumer confidence. decreased travel spending could reduce the demand for our services and have a negative impact on our business and financial performance. in addition, the uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and our results of operations. for example, since the united kingdom's referendum to exit the european union, known as brexit, global markets and foreign exchange rates have experienced increased volatility, including a decline in the value of the british pound as compared to the u.s. dollar. upon leaving the european union, among other things, the united kingdom could lose access to the single european union market and travel between the united kingdom and european union countries could be restricted. we could face new regulatory costs and challenges if the u.k. regulations diverge from those of the european union. since the terms of the united kingdom's exit from the european union are uncertain, we are unable to predict the effect brexit will have on our business and results of operations. 14 we operate in an increasingly competitive global environment and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. we compete in rapidly evolving and competitive markets. we face competition for content, consumers, advertisers, online travel search and price comparison services, or what is known in the industry as metasearch, and online reservations. we compete globally with both online and offline, established and emerging, providers of travel, lodging, experiences and restaurant reservation and related services. the markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. we also compete with different types of companies in the various markets and geographies where we operate, including large and small companies in the travel space as well as broader service providers. more specifically: in our hotel segment, we face competition from, and in some cases partner with, the following businesses: otas (including expedia and booking and many of their respective subsidiaries and operating companies); hotel metasearch providers (including trivago, a subsidiary of expedia, kayak and hotelscombined, subsidiaries of booking, and ctrip.com international, ltd); large online search, social media, and marketplace platforms and companies (including google, facebook, microsoft's bing, yahoo, baidu, alibaba, and amazon); and traditional offline travel agencies; and global hotel chains seeking to promote direct bookings. we also face competition from different companies in each of the offerings in our non-hotel segment. experiences competes with online travel agencies, such as airbnb, booking, and getyourguide; traditional travel agencies; online travel service providers; and wholesalers, among others. restaurants competes with other online restaurant reservation services, such as seatme (owned by yelp) and opentable (a subsidiary of booking). rentals competes with companies focused on alternative lodging, shared accommodations and online accommodation searches, including airbnb, homeaway (a subsidiary of expedia) and booking.com (a subsidiary of booking). there has been a proliferation of new channels through which providers can offer accommodations, experiences and restaurant reservations. metasearch services may lower the cost for new companies to enter the market by providing a distribution channel without the cost of promoting the new entrant's brand to drive consumers directly to its website. some of our competitors and potential competitors offer a variety of online services, many of which are used by competitors more frequently than online travel services. in addition, in some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction, or offer travel services at a loss, in order gain market share. many of our competitors (such as google, booking and ctrip) have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us and have more expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating internet traffic as well as large client bases. they also have the ability to leverage other aspects of their business to enable them to compete more effectively against us. for example, google has entered various aspects of the online travel market, including by establishing a flight metasearch product ("google flights") and a hotel metasearch product ("google hotel ads") that are growing rapidly, as well as its "book on google" reservation functionality and its google trips app. in addition, google and other large, established companies with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating internet traffic have launched travel or travel-related search, metasearch and/or reservation booking services and may create additional inroads into online travel. google's travel metasearch services, google hotel ads and google flights, are growing rapidly and have achieved significant market share in a relatively short time. in addition, many of our competitors, including online search companies, continue to expand their voice and artificial intelligence capabilities, which may provide them with a competitive advantage in travel. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current, emerging and future competitors or on platforms that may emerge, or provide differentiated products and services to our traveler base. we compete with certain companies that we also do business with, including some of our click-based travel partners. the consolidation of our competitors and travel partners, including expedia (through its acquisitions of orbitz, travelocity, and homeaway) and booking (through its acquisitions of kayak and opentable), may affect our relative competitiveness and our travel partner relationships. competition and consolidation could result in 15 higher traffic acquisition costs, reduce d margins on our advertising services, loss of market share, reduced customer traffic to our websites and reduced advertising by travel companies on our websites. as the industry shifts towards online travel services and the technology supporting it continues to evolve, including platforms such as mobile phone and tablet computing devices, competition is likely to intensify. competition in our industry may result in pricing pressure, loss of market share or decreased user engagement, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we rely on information technology to operate our business and remain competitive, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our businesses. we depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems for website and mobile apps, supplier connectivity, communications, reservations, payment processing, procurement, customer service and fraud prevention. our future success depends on our ability to continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while at the same time maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. we may not be able to maintain or replace our existing systems or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. we may not be successful, or as successful as our competitors, in developing technologies and systems that operate effectively across multiple devices and platforms in a way that is appealing to our consumers. in addition, the emergence of alternative devices, such as mobile phones and tablets, and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms, will require new investment in technology. new developments in other areas could also make it easier for competitors to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. technology changes, including new devices, services and home assistants, such as amazon's alexa voice and google home, and developing technologies, such as machine learning and artificial intelligence, could negatively impact our business. if we do not continue to innovate and provide products, services and features that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our business and financial performance could suffer. our success depends in part on continued innovation to provide products, features and services that make our platform compelling to users and engage our consumers. our competitors are continually developing innovations in online travel-related services and features. as a result, we are continually working to improve our business model and consumer experience in order to engage our consumers and drive user traffic and conversion rates. we have invested, and expect to continue to invest significant resources in developing and marketing these innovations. we can give no assurances that the changes we make will yield the benefits we expect and will not have unintended or adverse impacts that we did not anticipate. if we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services and quality features that users want to use, existing consumers may become dissatisfied and use competitors' offerings and we may be unable to attract additional consumers, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our dedication to making the user experience our highest priority may cause us to prioritize rapid innovation and user experience over short-term financial results. we strive to create the best experience for our users, providing them with the information, products and tools to enable them to plan, book, and experience the perfect trip. we believe that in doing so we will increase our rates of conversion, our revenue per hotel shopper and, ultimately, our financial performance over the long-term. we have taken actions in the past and may continue to make decisions in the future that have the effect of reducing our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions benefit the overall user experience. for example, we may introduce new products or changes to existing products or the user experience that decrease rates of conversion but increases revenue per hotel shopper. in addition, our approach of putting users first may negatively impact our relationship with existing or prospective partners. these actions and practices could result in a loss of partners, which in turn could harm our results of operations. the short-term reductions in revenue or profitability could be more severe than we anticipate or these decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which 16 case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with consumers and travel partners , and our business and results of operations could be harmed. in addition, if new or en hanced products fail to engage users or if we are unsuccessful in our effort to monetize these initiatives, we may fail to generate sufficient revenue, profit margin or other value to justify our investments, in which case our business and results of opera tions would be adversely affected. we are dependent upon the quality of traffic in our network to provide value to our partners, and any failure in our quality control could have a material adverse effect on the value of our websites to our partners and adversely affect our revenue. we use technology and processes to monitor the quality of the internet traffic that we deliver to our partners and have identified metrics to demonstrate the quality of that traffic. these metrics are used to not only identify the value of advertising on our website but also to identify low quality clicks such as non-human processes, including robots, spiders or other software; the mechanical automation of clicking; and other types of invalid clicks or click fraud. even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low-quality traffic, or traffic that online advertisers deem to be invalid, will be delivered to such online advertisers. as a result, we may be required to credit amounts owed to us by our partners. furthermore, low-quality or invalid traffic may be detrimental to our relationships with partners, and could adversely affect our advertising pricing and revenue. we rely on assumptions and estimates and data to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. we believe that certain metrics are key to our business, including but not limited to unique visitors, hotel shoppers, and revenue per hotel shopper. as both the industry in which we operate and our business continue to evolve, so too might the metrics by which we evaluate our business. while the calculation of these metrics is based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates, our internal tools are not independently verified by a third party and have a number of limitations and, furthermore, our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time. for example, a single person may have multiple accounts or browse the internet on multiple browsers or devices, some consumers may restrict our ability to accurately identify them across visits, some mobile apps automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no user action, and we are not always able to capture user information on all of our platforms. as such, the calculations of our unique visitors may not accurately reflect the number of people actually visiting our platforms. we continue to improve upon our tools and methodologies to capture data and believe that our current metrics are accurate; however, the improvement of our tools and methodologies could cause inconsistency between current data and previously reported data, which could confuse investors or lead to questions about the integrity of our data. also if the internal tools we use to track these metrics under-count or over-count performance or contain algorithm or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these metrics. we rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. our future success is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. in particular, the contributions of stephen kaufer, our co-founder, chief executive officer and president, the contributions of key senior management and the contributions of software engineers and other technology professionals, are critical to our overall management and the success of our business. we cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of our existing key personnel and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. in addition, competition remains intense for well-qualified employees in certain aspects of our business, including software engineers, developers, product management and development personnel, and other technology professionals. our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. as a global company, we aim to attract quality employees from all over the world, so any restrictions on travel for professional or personal purposes may cause significant disruption to our businesses or negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees on a global basis. if we do not succeed in 17 attracting well-qualified employees or retaining or motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. acquisitions, investments, significant commercial arrangements and/or new business strategies could disrupt our ongoing business and present new challenges and risks. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings in order to grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and partner demands and competitive pressures. as a result, we have acquired, invested in and/or entered into significant commercial arrangements with a number of new businesses in the past and our future growth may depend, in part, on future acquisitions, investments, commercial arrangements and/or changes in business strategies. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the following: expected and unexpected costs incurred in identifying and pursuing these endeavors, and performing due diligence on potential targets that may or may not be successful; use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding these endeavors that may limit other potential uses of our cash, including product development, stock repurchases, and/or dividend payments; amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences; diversion of management's attention or other resources from our existing business; difficulties and expenses in integrating the operations, products, technology, privacy protection systems, information systems or personnel of the company, including the assimilation of corporate cultures; difficulties in implementing and retaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; the assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the acquired company, including costs associated with litigation, cybersecurity risks, and other claims relating to the acquired company; failure of any company which we have acquired, in which we have invested, or with which we have a commercial arrangement, to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows or to retain key management or employees; failure to generate adequate returns on acquisitions and investments; with respect to minority investments, limited management or operational control and reputational risk, which risk is heightened if the controlling person in such case has business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours; entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience and increased complexity in our business; impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from acquisitions; and adverse market reaction to acquisitions. we have invested, and may in the future invest, in privately-held companies and these investments are currently accounted for using the measurement alternative for equity investments without a readily determinable fair value, which measure these investments at cost while subtracting any impairments, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. such investments are inherently risky in that such companies are typically at an early stage of development, may have no or limited revenues, may not be or may never become profitable, may not be able to secure additional funding or their technologies, services or products may not be successfully developed or introduced into the market. further, our ability to liquidate any such investments is typically dependent upon some liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition, since no public market exists for such securities. valuations of such privately-held companies are inherently complex and uncertain due to the lack of liquid market for the company's securities. 18 moreover, we could lose the full amount of any of our investments and any impairment of our investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and result of operations. we cannot assure you that these investments will be successful or that such endeavors will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible or that we will achieve these benefits within a reasonable period of time. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand, results of operations and business could be harmed. over the years, we have experienced rapid growth in some areas of our business, including through acquisitions of other businesses and in new international markets. we continue to make substantial investments in our technology, product and sales and marketing organizations. this growth places substantial demands on management and our operational infrastructure. in addition, as our business matures, we make periodic changes and adjustments to our organization in response to various internal and external considerations, including market opportunities, the competitive landscape, new and enhanced products and acquisitions. these changes may result in a temporary lack of focus or productivity or otherwise impact our business. to manage our growth, we may need to improve our operational, financial and management systems and processes which may require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources. as we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, including employees in international markets, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. if we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and business. the online short-term and vacation rental market is rapidly evolving and if we fail to predict the manner in which the market develops, our business and prospects may suffer. we offer short-term and vacation rental services on our tripadvisor-branded sites as well as through our dedicated rentals websites. the short-term and vacation rental market has been, and continues to be, subject to regulatory development globally that affects the industry and the ability of companies like us to list these rental properties online. for example, some states and local jurisdictions, both domestically and internationally, have adopted, or are considering adopting, statutes or ordinances that prohibit property owners and managers from renting certain properties on a short-term basis or otherwise limit their ability to do so, and other states and local jurisdictions may introduce similar regulations. some states and local jurisdictions also have fair housing or other laws that restrict whether and how properties may be rented, which they assert apply to vacation rentals. many homeowners, condominium and neighborhood associations have adopted rules that prohibit or restrict short-term rentals. many of the fundamental statutes and ordinances that impose taxes or other obligations on travel and lodging companies were established before the growth of the internet and e-commerce, which creates a risk of these laws being used in ways not originally intended that could burden property owners and managers or otherwise harm our business. operating in this dynamic regulatory environment requires significant management attention and financial resources. we cannot assure that our efforts will be successful, and the investment and additional resources required to manage growth will produce the desired levels of revenue or profitability. 19 risks related to legal and regulatory matters we are a global company that operates in many different jurisdictions and these operations expose us to additional risks, which risks increase as our business continues to expand. we operate in a number of jurisdictions both inside and outside of the united states and continue to expand our operations both domestically and internationally. many regions have different economic conditions, languages, currencies, consumer expectations, legislation, regulatory environments (including labor laws and customs), tax laws, levels of consumer acceptance and use of the internet for commerce and levels of political stability. we are subject to associated risks typical of global businesses, including, but not limited to, the following: compliance with additional laws and regulations (including the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and gdpr), data privacy requirements, labor and employment law, laws regarding advertisements and promotions and anti-competition regulations; diminished ability to legally enforce contractual rights; increased risk and limits on enforceability of intellectual property rights; restrictions on repatriation of cash as well as restrictions on investments in operations in certain countries; financial risk arising from transactions in multiple currencies as well as foreign currency exchange restrictions; difficulties in managing staff and operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences; uncertainty regarding liability for services, content and intellectual property rights, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of precedent; economic or political instability or laws and regulations involving economic or trade prohibitions or sanctions; and threatened or actual acts of terrorism. our strategy includes continued expansion in existing international and new international markets. many of these markets have different economic conditions, customers, languages, currencies, consumer expectations, levels of consumer acceptance and use of the internet for commerce, legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political stability, and we are subject to associated risks typical of international businesses. international markets have strong local competitors with established brands and travel service providers or relationships that may make expansion in certain markets difficult and costly and take more time than anticipated. in addition, compliance with legal, regulatory or tax requirements in multiple jurisdictions places demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. in some markets, such as china, legal and other regulatory requirements may prohibit or limit participation by foreign businesses, such as by making foreign ownership or management of internet or travel-related businesses illegal or difficult or may make direct participation in those markets uneconomic, which could make our entry or expansion in those markets difficult or impossible, require that we work with a local partner or result in higher operating costs. if we are unsuccessful in expanding in new and existing markets and effectively managing that expansion, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the recently enacted u.s. tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 tax act ). foreign governments may enact tax laws that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. the 2017 tax act resulted in significant changes to the u.s. corporate income tax system. the 2017 tax act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in u.s. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the 2017 tax act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. the u.s. 20 treasury department, the irs and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 tax act will be applied or otherwi se administered that is different from our interpretation. additionally, we continue to accumulate positive cash flows in foreign jurisdictions, which we consider indefinitely reinvested, although we will continue to evaluate the impact of the 2017 tax act on our capital deployment within and outside the u.s. the repatriation of such funds for use in the united states, including for corporate purposes such as acquisitions, stock repurchases, or debt refinancings, may result in additional u.s. income tax expense and higher cost for such capital. we are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. we are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, government investigations and other proceedings involving, among other matters, patent and intellectual property rights (including alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights), tax matters (including value-added, excise, transient, occupancy and accommodation taxes), regulatory compliance (including competition and consumer protection matters), defamation and free speech, labor and employment matters and commercial disputes. such claims, lawsuits, government investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, injunctions or damage awards and other factors. determining reserves for our pending litigation or other legal proceedings is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial damages, fines or penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. these proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or other field action, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a failure to comply with current laws, rules and regulations or changes to such laws, rules and regulations and other legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business or financial performance. our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business, including those relating to internet and online commerce, internet advertising, consumer protection, data security and privacy, travel and rental licensing and listing requirements and tax. in some cases, these laws continue to evolve. for example, there is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to internet and online commerce that may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, data security, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of products and services. in addition, enforcement authorities continue to rely on their authority under existing consumer protection laws to take action against companies relating to data privacy and security practices. the growth and development of online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws and more aggressive enforcement efforts, which may impose additional burdens on online businesses generally. further, rentals has been and continues to be subject to regulatory developments that affect the rental industry and the ability of competitors like us to list those rentals online. for example, some states and local jurisdictions have fair housing or other laws governing whether and how properties may be rented, which they assert apply to rentals. in addition, many homeowners, condominium and neighborhood associations have adopted or are considering adopting statutes or ordinances that prohibit or restrict property owners and managers from short-term rentals. 21 we also have been subject, and we will likely be subject in the future, to inquiries from time to time from regulatory bodi es concerning compliance with consumer protection, competition, tax and travel industry-specific laws and regulations. the failure of our businesses to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and/or proceedings against us by government al agencies and/or consumers, which if material, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, if such laws and regulations are not enforced equally against other competitors in a particular market, our compli ance with such laws may put us at a competitive disadvantage vis- -vis competitors who do not comply with such requirements. the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations, or the new interpretation of existing laws, rules and regulations, in each case that restrict or otherwise unfavorably impact the ability or manner in which we provide services could require us to change certain aspects of our business, operations and commercial relationships to ensure compliance, which could decrease demand for services, reduce revenues, increase costs and/or subject the company to additional liabilities. for example, in 2018, the european union adopted gdpr implementing enhanced data protection requirements and other jurisdictions are contemplating and may in the future adopt similar legislation. this legislation could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. unfavorable changes could decrease demand for products and services, limit marketing methods and capabilities, impede development of new products, result in negative publicity, require significant management time, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. violations of these laws and regulations could result in penalties and/or criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees and/or restrictions on the conduct of parts of our business in certain jurisdictions. we cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected from copying or use by others, including potential competitors. our websites rely on content, brands and technology, much of which is proprietary. we protect our proprietary content, brands and technology by relying on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents and confidentiality agreements. any misappropriation or violation of our rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. even with these precautions, it may be possible for another party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, content or brands without authorization or to develop similar technology, content or brands independently. effective intellectual property protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and expenses and the costs of defending our rights. in addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our services are made available, and policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our business or ability to compete. we cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. furthermore, we may need to go to court or other tribunals or administrative bodies in order to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. these proceedings might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. our failure to protect our intellectual property in a cost-effective or effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to protect our technology, content and brands. we currently license from third parties and incorporate the technologies and content into our websites. as we continue to introduce new services that incorporate new technologies and content, we may be required to license additional technology, or content. we cannot be sure that such technology or content will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 22 risks related to data and privacy our processing, storage and use of personal information and other data subjects us to additional laws and regulations and failure to comply with those laws and regulations could give rise to liabilities. we collect, process, store and transmit data, including personal information, for our consumers. as a result, we are subject to a variety of laws in the united states and abroad regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other consumer data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. in addition, the security of data when engaging in electronic commerce is essential to maintaining consumer and travel service provider confidences in our services. the regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. the u.s. congress and federal agencies, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, are reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection and use of information concerning consumer behavior on the internet. various u.s. courts are also considering the applicability of existing federal and state statutes, including computer trespass and wiretapping laws, to the collection and exchange of information online. in addition, we are subject to gdpr, a new data protection legal framework adopted by the european union that is intended to enhance the privacy and security of personal data, including credit card information. there are a number of proposals for data privacy laws pending or proposed in other jurisdictions, including at both the state and federal level of the united states. implementing and complying with these laws and regulations may be more costly or take longer than we anticipate, or could otherwise affect our business operations. we strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, privacy-related obligations to consumers or other third parties, or privacy-related legal obligations, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements that could harm our reputation and cause our users and partners to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, brand, market share and results of operations. for example, gdpr imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide annual turnover and/or 20 million. we are subject to risks associated with processing credit card and other payment transactions and failure to manage those risks may subject us to fines, penalties and additional costs and could have a negative impact on our business. we accept payments from consumers and partners using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, direct debit from a customer's bank account, and invoicing. for existing and future payment options we offer to our customers, we may become subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations to implement enhanced authentication processes). these regulations and/or requirements could result in significant costs and reduce the ease of use of our payment products and yet may still be susceptible to fraudulent activity. in addition, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our websites as well as other payment disputes with our customers. for certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. we rely on third parties to provide certain payment methods and payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards and debit cards. in each case, our business could be disrupted if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. we are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card issuing banks' costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and/or lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments. we are also subject to a number of other laws and regulations relating to payments, money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security, and electronic fund transfers. if we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or 23 regulati ons, we could be subject to additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, or forced to cease providing certain services. system security issues, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and system outage issues could disrupt our operations or services provided to our consumers, and any such disruption could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial results and stock price. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and service our consumers and travel partners is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties we utilize in our operations. significant security issues, data breaches, cyberattacks and outages, interruptions or delays, in our systems or third party systems upon which we rely, could impair our ability to display content or process transactions and significantly harm our business. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our consumers or our travel partners, could expose us, our consumers and travel partners to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business and financial performance and result in government enforcement actions and litigation and potential liability for us. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, consumers, or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our systems or data. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to investigate and address problems caused by cyber or other security problems. we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. failure to adequately protect against attacks or intrusions, whether for our own systems or systems of vendors, could expose us to security breaches that could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. the costs of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved stability and redundancy may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. in addition, to the extent that we do experience a data breach, remediation may be costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such costs. much of our business is conducted with third party marketing affiliates or, to a lesser degree, through business partners powering our instant booking feature. a security breach at such third party could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity or damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. in addition, such incidents may also result in a decline in our active user base or engagement levels. finally, failure of such third parties to comply with applicable disclosure requirements could expose us to liability. we have acquired a number of companies over the years and may continue to do so in the future. as a result of these acquisitions, we may increase the volume of personal data that we collect, store, process and transmit. while we make significant efforts to address any information technology security issues and personal data protection issues with respect to our acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate the acquired businesses. media coverage of data breaches has escalated, in part because of the increased number of enforcement actions, investigations and lawsuits. security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage to reputation, exposure to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability due to regulatory penalties and sanctions. as this focus and attention on privacy and data protection increases, we also risk exposure to potential liabilities and costs resulting from the compliance with, or any failure to comply with, applicable legal requirements, conflicts among these legal requirements or differences in approaches to privacy and security. security breaches could also cause travelers and 24 potential consumers to lose confidence in our data security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. "cookie" laws could negatively impact the way we do business. a "cookie" is a text file that is stored on a user's web browser by a website. cookies are common tools used by thousands of websites, including ours, to, among other things, store or gather information (e.g., remember log-on details so a user does not have to re-enter them when revisiting a website), market to consumers and enhance the user experience on a website. cookies are valuable tools for websites like ours to improve the customer experience and increase conversion on their websites. many countries have adopted regulations governing the use of "cookies" by websites servicing consumers, especially in the european union. to the extent any such regulations require "opt-in" consent before certain cookies can be placed on a user's web browser, our ability to serve certain customers in the manner we currently do, including with respect to retargeting of advertising, might be adversely affected and our ability to continue to improve and optimize performance on our websites might be impaired, either of which could negatively affect a consumer's experience using our services and our business, market share and results of operations. risks related to the financial and tax matters we may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. we are currently party to a credit agreement with respect to a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility maturing in may 2022 (as more fully discussed below, the 2015 credit facility ). this agreement includes restrictive covenants that may impact the way we manage our business and may limit our ability to secure significant additional financing in the future on favorable terms. our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. there can be no assurance that sufficient financing will be available or desirable, or even any, terms to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or extraordinary actions or that counterparties in any such financings would honor their contractual commitments. we have indebtedness which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. at december 31, 2018, we had no outstanding long-term debt; however, we continue to have existing credit facilities from which we can borrow significant amounts. as such, we are still subject to risks relating to our indebtedness that include: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; making it more difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; possibly placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms that we find acceptable; and exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our outstanding debt is expected to be subject to variable rates of interest. 25 in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our 2015 c redit facility allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations; however, there is no assurance that additional financing will be available to us on terms favorable to us, if at all. in addition, if new debt is added to the then existing de bt levels, the risks described above could intensify. our 2015 credit facility provides for various provisions that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants and the failure to comply with their covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. we are party to a credit agreement providing for our 2015 credit facility. the agreements that govern the 2015 credit facility contain various covenants, including those that limit our ability to, among other things: incur indebtedness; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; enter into certain asset sale transactions, including partial or full spin-off transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to optimally operate our business. in addition, our 2015 credit facility requires that we meet certain financial tests, including a leverage ratio test. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facility may result in an event of default under the agreements governing such facility. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the debt incurred thereunder. in addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds (including periodic rollovers of existing borrowings). our financial results will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future. additionally, we have limited operating history with the current scale of our business, which means it is difficult to forecast our financial results. as a result, you should not rely upon our quarterly financial results as indicators of future performance. our financial results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to maintain and grow our user base and to increase user engagement; increase in marketing, sales and other operation expenses that we will incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; fluctuations in the marketing spend of our travel partners due to seasonality, episodic global or regional events or other factors; the pricing of our ads and other products; user behavior or product changes that may reduce traffic to features or products that we successfully monetize; system failure or outages, which would prevent us from serving ads for any period of time; breaches of security or privacy and the costs associated with any such breaches and remediation; fees paid to third parties for content or promotion of our products and services; adverse litigation judgments, settlement or other litigation related costs; 26 changes in the legislative or regulatory environm ent, including with respect to privacy and data protection, or engagement by government regulators, including final orders or consent decrees; the impact of changes in tax laws, which are recorded in the period enacted and may significantly affect our effective income tax rates; tax obligations that may arise from resolutions of tax examinations, including the examinations we are currently under that may materially differ from the amounts we have anticipated; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and changes in global business and macroeconomic conditions. if we are unable to successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and our stock price and business may be adversely impacted. as a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. additionally, we are required to disclose in our annual reports on form 10-k our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a registered public accounting firm's attestation report on this assessment. if we are not successful in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, there could be inaccuracies or omissions in the consolidated financial information we are required to file with the sec. additionally, even if there are no inaccuracies or omissions, we could be required to publicly disclose the conclusion of our management that our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. these events could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, adversely impact our stock price, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits that could be costly to resolve and distract management's attention, limit our ability to access the capital markets or cause our stock to be delisted from nasdaq or any other securities exchange on which we are then listed. our effective income tax rate is impacted by a number of factors that could have a material impact on our financial results and could increase the volatility of those results. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. in the event we incur net income in certain jurisdictions but incur losses in other jurisdictions, we generally cannot offset the income from one jurisdiction with the loss from another. this lack of flexibility increases our effective income tax rate. furthermore, significant judgment is required to calculate our worldwide provision for income taxes and depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. in the ordinary course of our business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we believe our tax estimates are reasonable. however, we are routinely under audit by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. the taxing authorities of jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences, which would increase our effective income tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. as we operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions, the application of tax laws can also be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by taxing authorities of these jurisdictions. it is not uncommon for taxing authorities of different countries to have conflicting views, for instance, with respect to, among other things, the manner in which the arm's length standard is applied for transfer pricing purposes, or with respect to the valuation of intellectual property. for example, the organization for economic cooperation and development (the oecd ) has recently recommended changes to numerous long-standing international tax principles. if countries amend their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the oecd guidelines, this may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. 27 the final determination of audits could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals and could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. also, our future effective income tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in valuation of deferred tax assets or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. if our effective income tax rates were to increase, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. the income tax effects of the accounting for share-based compensation may significantly impact our effective income tax rate. in periods in which our stock price is higher than the grant-date price of the share-based compensation awards vesting in that period, we will recognize excess tax benefits that will decrease our effective income tax rate. in periods in which our stock price is lower than the grant-date price of the share-based compensation awards vesting in that period, our effective income tax rate will increase. additionally, we continue to accumulate positive cash flow in foreign jurisdictions, which we consider indefinitely reinvested, although we will continue to evaluate the impact of the 2017 tax act on our capital deployment within and outside the u.s. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in withholding taxes and state taxes. application of u.s. state and local or international tax laws, changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or the examination of our tax positions, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. as an international business, we are subject to incomes taxes and non-income-based taxes in the united states and various other international jurisdictions. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. however, due to economic and political conditions, tax rates and tax regimes in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change and the tax benefits that we intend to eventually derive could be undermined due to changing tax laws. governments are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues, which has contributed to an increase in audit activity, more aggressive positions taken by tax authorities and an increase in tax legislation. any such additional taxes or other assessments may be in excess of our current tax provisions or may require us to modify our business practices in order to reduce our exposure to additional taxes going forward, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the 2017 tax act has resulted in significant changes to the u.s. corporate income tax system. the 2017 tax act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in u.s. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the 2017 tax act, significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. the tax law changes by the 2017 tax act are broad and complex and there are still uncertainties about how the 2017 tax act will be interpreted at both the u.s. federal and state levels. the u.s. treasury department, the irs and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 tax act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. this could materially change the taxes that we recorded in 2017 and 2018, and the expected future impact of the 2017 tax act on our business. on january 28, 2016, the european commission unveiled a new package of proposals aimed at providing a framework for fairer taxation and to provide a coordinated european union response to combating corporate tax avoidance. following agreement among the european union member states on the final content of the package, the european council formally adopted an anti-tax avoidance directive in july 2016, which was further amended in february 2017. the directive is aimed at preventing aggressive tax planning, increasing tax transparency and creating a fairer tax environment for all businesses in the european union. the oecd is working towards a consensus-based solution to the challenges of the digitalization of the economy by 2020. in addition, on march 21, 2018, the european commission released two draft directives on the taxation of the digital economy. one directive aims at a more comprehensive solution whereby eu states would be able to levy corporate income tax on companies that have digital presence in those states regardless of whether they have a physical presence in those states. the second directive provides for an interim solution whereby eu states are to apply a 3% revenue based digital services tax, which if enacted, would be effective beginning in 2020. in the interim, certain eu states (austria, 28 france, italy, spain, belgium and the united kingdom) have proposed legislation to implement a digital services tax that, if enacted, would impose a tax on revenue earned by larger companies from users of digital services located in these respective eu states as early as 2019. any changes to international tax laws, including new definitions of permanent establishment, could affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings and adversely impact our effective income tax rate. further, changes to tax laws an d additional reporting requirements could increase the complexity, burden and cost of compliance. due to the large and expanding scale of our international business activities, any changes in u.s. or international taxation of our activities or the combined effect of tax laws in multiple jurisdictions may increase our worldwide effective income tax rate, increase the complexity and costs associated with tax compliance (especially if changes are implemented or interpreted inconsistently across tax jurisdictio ns) and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. in addition, the taxing authorities in the united states and other jurisdictions where we do business regularly examine our income and other tax returns as well as the tax returns of expedia, our former parent. the ultimate outcome of these examinations (including the irs audit described below) cannot be predicted with certainty. should the irs or other taxing authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations, we may be required to record charges to our operations, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. in july 2015, the united states tax court issued an opinion favorable to altera corporation, accepting altera's position of excluding stock-based compensation from its intercompany cost-sharing arrangement. the irs subsequently appealed the court decision on february 19, 2016. on july 24, 2018, the irs won an appeals court case at the ninth circuit, however, on august 7, 2018, the ninth circuit withdrew its decision regarding altera and the case was reheard. while we have recorded an income tax benefit based on the court's 2015 opinion, we may be required to reverse the income tax benefit if an unfavorable opinion is issued by the court when the case is reheard. changes in tax treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce may adversely affect the commercial use of our sites and our financial results. due to the global nature of the internet, it is possible that various states or foreign countries might attempt to levy additional or new sales, income or other taxes relating to our activities. tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce. new or revised international, federal, state or local tax regulations or court decisions may subject us or our customers to additional sales, occupancy, income and other taxes. for example, congress is considering various approaches to legislation that would require companies engaged in e-commerce to collect sales tax on internet revenue and a growing number of u.s. states and certain foreign jurisdictions have adopted or are considering proposals to impose obligations on remote sellers and online marketplaces to collect taxes on their behalf. additionally, the u.s. supreme court's ruling in south dakota v. wayfair inc., in which a court reversed longstanding precedent that remote sellers are not required to collect state and local sales taxes, may have an adverse impact on our business. we cannot predict the effect of these and other attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on e-commerce. new or revised taxes and, in particular, sales taxes, occupancy taxes, value added taxes ( vat ) and similar taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of selling products and services over the internet. new taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data and collect and remit taxes. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, occupancy, vat or similar taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our operating results. we do not collect and remit sales and use, occupancy, vat or similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable or legally required. several states and other taxing jurisdictions have presented or threatened us with assessments, alleging that we are required to collect and remit certain taxes there. while we do not believe that we are subject to such taxes and intend to vigorously defend our position in these cases, we cannot be sure of the outcome of our discussions and/or appeals with these states or cases that are pending in the courts. in the event of an adverse outcome, we could face assessments for additional time periods since the last assessments we received, plus any additional interest and penalties. we also expect additional jurisdictions may make similar assessments or pass similar new laws in the future, and any of the jurisdictions where 29 we have sales may apply more rigorous enforcement efforts or take more aggressive positions in the future t hat could result in greater tax liability allegations. such tax assessments, penalties and interest or future requirements may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we continue to be subject to significant potential tax liabilities in connection with the spin-off. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia entered into in connection with the spin-off, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. we continue to be responsible for potential tax liabilities in connection with consolidated income tax returns filed with expedia prior to or in connection with the spin-off. by virtue of previously filed consolidated tax returns with expedia, we are currently under irs audit for the 2009, 2010, and short-period 2011 tax years. in connection with that audit, we received, in january 2017, notices of proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2009 and 2010 tax years, which would result in an increase in our worldwide income tax expense. the proposed adjustments would result in an increase to our worldwide income tax expense in an estimated range totaling $10 million to $14 million for those specific years after consideration of competent authority relief, exclusive of interest and penalties. we are also subject to various ongoing state income tax audits. the outcome of these matters or any other audits could subject us to significant tax liabilities. we are subject to fluctuation in foreign currency exchange risk. we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the united states but report our results in u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly those related to the euro, british pound, and australian dollar. these exposures include, but are not limited to, re-measurement of gains and losses from changes in the value of foreign denominated assets and liabilities; translation gains and losses on foreign subsidiary financial results that are translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation; and planning risk related to changes in exchange rates between the time we prepare our annual and quarterly forecasts and when actual results occur. for example, brexit caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. continued uncertainty regarding brexit may result in future exchange rate volatility. in addition, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such as the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro or the british pound, could adversely affect our net revenue growth in future periods. depending on the size of the exposures and the relative movements of exchange rates, if we were to choose not to hedge or were to fail to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial statements and financial condition. as seen in some recent periods, in the event of severe volatility in exchange rates the impact of these exposures can increase, and the impact on results of operations can be more pronounced. in addition, the current environment and the increasingly global nature of our business have made hedging these exposures both more complex. we hedge certain short-term foreign currency exposures with the purchase of forward exchange contracts. these forward exchange contracts only help mitigate the impact of changes in foreign currency rates that occur during the term of the related contract period and carry risks of counter-party failure. there can be no assurance that our forward exchange contracts will have their intended effects. significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can affect consumer travel behavior. volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and its impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and 30 business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. risks related to ownership of our common stock liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. currently is a controlling stockholder. liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip, effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of our stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of our common stock of 25% of the members of our board of directors and matters as to which delaware law requires separate class votes), including but not limited to, corporate transactions such as mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets, the authorization or issuance of new equity or debt securities and determinations with respect to our business direction and policies. our chairman gregory maffei and one of our directors albert rosenthaler also serve as officers and directors of ltrip. ltrip may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders and they may vote in a way with which our other stockholders may not agree or that may be adverse to other stockholders' interests. ltrip is not restricted from investing in other businesses involving or related to our business. ltrip's control of us, as well as the existing provisions of our organizational documents and delaware law, may discourage or prevent a change of control that might otherwise be beneficial, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. the market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may face negative pressure. our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility. the market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this section and other factors beyond our control. factors affecting the trading price of our common stock could include: quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; failure to meet market expectations; the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program which could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock; developments in our industry, including changes in governmental regulations; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors related to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or foreign currency exchange fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. we are currently relying on the controlled company exemption under nasdaq stock market listing rules, pursuant to which controlled companies are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements otherwise applicable under nasdaq listing rules. 31 the nasdaq stock market listing rules exempt controlled companies, or companies of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company, from certain corporate governance requirements, including those requirements that: a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we currently rely on the controlled company exemption for certain of the above requirements. accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other nasdaq-listed companies with respect to corporate governance for so long as we rely on these exemptions from the corporate governance requirements. we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, our stockholders' ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. we anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes. any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize future gains on their investments. future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, particularly sales by our directors, officers, employees and significant stockholders, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impact our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. in addition, certain stockholders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. if ltrip or some other stockholder sells substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if there is a perception in the public market that ltrip might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. a decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. these provisions include: authorization and issuance of class b common stock that entitles holders to ten votes per share; authorization of the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; prohibiting our stockholders from filling board vacancies or calling special stockholder meetings; and limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders. 32 we are subject to the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. these and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in stock prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to market risks primarily due to our international operations, and our ongoing investing and financial activities. the risk of loss can be assessed from the perspective of adverse changes in our future earnings, cash flows, fair values, and financial condition. our exposure to market risk includes our credit facilities, derivative instruments, cash, cash equivalents, short term and long term marketable securities, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables/payables, accounts payable and deferred merchant payables denominated in foreign currencies. we have established policies, procedures and internal processes governing our management of market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage and attempt to mitigate our exposure to such risks. interest rates as of december 31, 2018, our primary exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. changes in interest rates affect the amount of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and the fair value of those securities. our interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in u.s. interest rates and libor. we currently invest our excess cash in cash deposits at major global banks, money market funds, and marketable securities. our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. our investment policy requires our investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of our current investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. based on our investment positions as of december 31, 2018, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would not result in a material decline in the fair value of the portfolio. in addition, such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. refer to note 7: financial instruments and fair value measurements in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 on this annual report on form 10-k for further information on our investment portfolio and other financial instruments. as of december 31, 2018, we had no outstanding borrowings under our 2015 credit facility. we currently do not hedge our interest rate risk; however, we are continually evaluating the interest rate market, and if we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. we did not experience any material financial impact from changes in interest rates for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016. foreign currency exchange rates we conduct business in certain international markets, primarily the european union, including the united kingdom, and also singapore and australia. because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign currency exchange rates. some of our subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their respective local currencies other than the u.s. dollar. consequently, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact the translation of those subsidiary's financial statements into u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results of our non-u.s. dollar operations are translated from local currency, or functional currency, into u.s. dollars upon consolidation. if the u.s. dollar weakens against the functional currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income. similarly, our net assets, revenue, operating expenses, 61 operating income and net income will decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against the functional currency. the effect of foreign currency exchange on our business historically has varied from quarter to quarte r and may continue to do so, potentially materially. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our consolidated financial statements, we performed a sensitivity analysis. a hypothetical 10% decre ase of the foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, or strengthening of the u.s. dollar, would generate an unrealized loss of approximately $27 million related to a decrease in our net assets as of december 31, 2018, which would initial ly be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on our consolidated balance sheet. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in transactional gains and losses. we recognize these transactional gains and losses (primarily euro currency transactions) in our consolidated statements of operations and have recorded a foreign currency exchange loss of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, gain of $1 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, and a loss of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, respectively, in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. future transactional gains and losses are inherently difficult to predict as they are reliant on how the multiple currencies in which we transact fluctuate in relation to the u.s. dollar and other functional currencies, and the relative composition and denomination of monetary assets and liabilities each period. we currently manage our exposure to foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures. to the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies, as well as, using derivative financial instruments. we use foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage certain short-term foreign currency risk to try and reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. our objective is to hedge only those foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified and that may result in significant impacts to our cash or the consolidated statement of operations. our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures. our foreign currency forward exchange contracts, to date, have principally addressed foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk between the euro and the u.s. dollar. we have accounted for our derivative instruments to date, which have not been designated as hedges under gaap, as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. we had two outstanding forward currency contracts as of december 31, 2018 with a total notional value of $13 million. these outstanding forward currency contracts were not designated as hedges and had maturities of less than 90 days. we had no outstanding derivative contracts as of december 31, 2017. we recognize gains and losses from our derivative contracts in our consolidated statement of operations and have recorded net losses of $3 million and $1 million for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and a net gain of $2 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. refer to note 7: financial instruments and fair value measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 on this annual report on form 10-k for further detail on our derivative instruments. as we increase our operations in international markets, our exposure to potentially volatile movements in foreign currency exchange rates increases. the economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions, and other factors. these changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our foreign currency risk strategies. for example, brexit has caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. continued uncertainty regarding brexit may result in future exchange rate volatility. since the terms of the united kingdom's exit from the european union are uncertain, we are unable to predict the effect brexit will have on our business and results of operations related to foreign currency and other market risks. 62 ite m 8. financial statements and supplementary data index to financial statements and supplementary data: report of independent registered public accounting firm 64 consolidated statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 65 consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 66 consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2018 and 201 7 67 consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 68 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 69 notes to consolidated financial statements 70 63 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the stockholders and board of directors tripadvisor, inc.: opinion on the consolidated financial statements we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries (the company ) as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended december 31, 2018, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements ). in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended december 31, 2018, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) ( pcaob ), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission, and our report dated february 22, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. basis for opinion these consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. /s/ kpmg llp we have served as the company's auditor since 2014. boston, massachusetts february 22, 2019 64 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of operations (in millions, except per share amounts) year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 revenue (note 4) $ 1,615 $ 1,556 $ 1,480 costs and expenses: cost of revenue (1)(2) 86 72 71 selling and marketing (2) 778 849 756 technology and content (2) 275 243 243 general and administrative (2) 177 157 143 depreciation 82 79 69 amortization of intangible assets 34 32 32 total costs and expenses 1,432 1,432 1,314 operating income 183 124 166 other income (expense): interest expense (12 ) (15 ) (12 ) interest income and other, net (note 19) 2 1 (3 ) total other income (expense), net (10 ) (14 ) (15 ) income before income taxes 173 110 151 provision for income taxes (note 11) (60 ) (129 ) (31 ) net income (loss) $ 113 $ (19 ) $ 120 earnings (loss) per share attributable to common stockholders (note 5): basic $ 0.82 $ (0.14 ) $ 0.83 diluted $ 0.81 $ (0.14 ) $ 0.82 weighted average common shares outstanding (note 5): basic 138 140 145 diluted 140 140 147 (1) excludes amortization expense as follows: amortization of acquired technology included in amortization of intangible assets $ 8 $ 8 $ 7 amortization of website development costs included in depreciation 59 54 46 $ 67 $ 62 $ 53 (2) includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (note 6): cost of revenue $ 1 $ - $ - selling and marketing $ 21 $ 21 $ 20 technology and content $ 51 $ 40 $ 40 general and administrative $ 45 $ 35 $ 25 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 65 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions) year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 net income (loss) $ 113 $ (19 ) $ 120 other comprehensive income (loss): foreign currency translation adjustments (1) (20 ) 35 (14 ) total other comprehensive income (loss) (20 ) 35 (14 ) comprehensive income $ 93 $ 16 $ 106 (1) foreign currency translation adjustments exclude income taxes due to our intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in those operations. refer to note 16: stockholders' equity . the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 66 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated balance sheets (in millions, except number of shares and per share amounts) december 31, december 31, 2018 2017 assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents (note 7) $ 655 $ 673 short-term marketable securities (note 7) 15 35 accounts receivable and contract assets, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $21 and $16, respectively (note 2, note 4) 212 230 income taxes receivable (note 11) 30 prepaid expenses and other current assets 33 25 total current assets 915 993 long-term marketable securities (note 7) 27 property and equipment, net (note 8) 253 263 intangible assets, net (note 9) 118 142 goodwill (note 9) 756 758 deferred income taxes, net (note 11) 27 16 other long-term assets 98 73 total assets $ 2,167 $ 2,272 liabilities and stockholders' equity current liabilities: accounts payable $ 15 $ 8 deferred merchant payables (note 2) 164 156 deferred revenue (note 4) 63 60 accrued expenses and other current liabilities (note 12) 151 148 total current liabilities 393 372 long-term debt (note 10) 230 deferred income taxes, net (note 11) 21 14 other long-term liabilities (note 13) 282 293 total liabilities 696 909 commitments and contingencies (note 14) stockholders' equity: (note 16) preferred stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 100,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 0 and 0 common stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 1,600,000,000 shares issued: 137,158,010 and 135,617,263, respectively shares outstanding: 125,101,322 and 126,142,773, respectively class b common stock, $0.001 par value authorized shares: 400,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 12,799,999 and 12,799,999, respectively additional paid-in capital 1,037 926 retained earnings 1,043 926 accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (62 ) (42 ) treasury stock-common stock, at cost, 12,056,688 and 9,474,490 shares, respectively (547 ) (447 ) total stockholders' equity 1,471 1,363 total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 2,167 $ 2,272 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 67 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity (in millions, except number of shares) accumulated additional other class b paid-in retained comprehensive common stock common stock capital earnings (loss) income treasury stock total shares amount shares amount shares amount balance as of december 31, 2015 133,836,242 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 741 $ 826 $ (63 ) (1,393,131 ) $ (92 ) $ 1,412 net income 120 120 cumulative effect adjustment from adoption of new accounting guidance related to stock-based compensation (1 ) (1 ) other comprehensive loss (14 ) (14 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 870,225 7 7 repurchase of common stock (note 16) (2,002,356 ) (105 ) (105 ) withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (15 ) (15 ) stock-based compensation (note 6) 98 98 balance as of december 31, 2016 134,706,467 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 831 $ 945 $ (77 ) (3,395,487 ) $ (197 ) $ 1,502 net loss (19 ) (19 ) other comprehensive income 35 35 issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 910,796 3 3 repurchase of common stock (note 16) (6,079,003 ) (250 ) (250 ) withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (17 ) (17 ) stock-based compensation (note 6) 109 109 balance as of december 31, 2017 135,617,263 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 926 $ 926 $ (42 ) (9,474,490 ) $ (447 ) $ 1,363 net income 113 113 cumulative effect adjustment from adoption of new accounting guidance (note 2) 4 4 other comprehensive loss (20 ) (20 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 1,540,747 6 6 repurchase of common stock (note 16) (2,582,198 ) (100 ) (100 ) withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (26 ) (26 ) stock-based compensation (note 6) 131 131 balance as of december 31, 2018 137,158,010 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 1,037 $ 1,043 $ (62 ) (12,056,688 ) $ (547 ) $ 1,471 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 68 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions) year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 operating activities: net income (loss) $ 113 $ (19 ) $ 120 adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development 82 79 69 amortization of intangible assets 34 32 32 stock-based compensation expense (note 6) 118 96 85 deferred tax expense (benefit) and other, net 12 39 (10 ) changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions, other investments and dispositions: accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets (8 ) (36 ) (24 ) accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities 22 7 deferred merchant payables 14 14 21 income tax receivables/payables, net 13 38 20 deferred revenue 5 (5 ) 1 net cash provided by operating activities 405 238 321 investing activities: capital expenditures, including internal-use software and website development (61 ) (64 ) (72 ) acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired (note 3) (24 ) (43 ) purchases of marketable securities (16 ) (63 ) (166 ) sales of marketable securities 59 105 84 maturities of marketable securities 5 28 32 other investing activities, net (12 ) 2 net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (49 ) 6 (163 ) financing activities: repurchase of common stock (note 16) (100 ) (250 ) (105 ) proceeds from 2015 credit facility, net of financing costs 5 433 101 payments to 2015 credit facility (235 ) (296 ) (210 ) proceeds from chinese credit facilities 2 7 payments to chinese credit facilities (10 ) (1 ) proceeds from 2016 credit facility, net of financing costs 73 payments to 2016 credit facility (73 ) proceeds from exercise of stock options 6 3 7 payment of withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards (26 ) (17 ) (15 ) net cash used in financing activities (358 ) (200 ) (143 ) effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (16 ) 17 (17 ) net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (18 ) 61 (2 ) cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 673 612 614 cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 655 $ 673 $ 612 supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: cash paid during the period for income taxes, net of refunds $ 53 $ 62 $ 29 cash paid during the period for interest $ 8 $ 13 $ 10 supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities: stock-based compensation capitalized with internal-use software and website development costs $ 13 $ 13 $ 12 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 69 tripadvisor, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements note 1: organization and business description we refer to tripadvisor, inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiaries as tripadvisor, the company, us, we and our in these notes to the consolidated financial statements. on december 20, 2011, expedia group, inc. ( expedia ) completed a spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly traded delaware corporation. we refer to this transaction as the spin-off. tripadvisor's common stock began trading on the nasdaq as an independent public company on december 21, 2011, under the trading symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates. as a result, liberty beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip. simultaneously, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. we refer to this transaction as the liberty spin-off . as a result of the liberty spin-off, effective august 27, 2014, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor. as a result of these transactions, as of december 31, 2018, ltrip beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock, which constitute 14.5% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 22.5% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 57.7% of our voting power. description of business tripadvisor is an online travel company and our mission is to help people around the world to plan, book and experience the perfect trip. we seek to achieve our mission by providing consumers and travel partners a global platform with rich consumer-generated content, price comparison tools and online reservation and related services for destinations, accommodations, travel activities and experiences, and restaurants. tripadvisor, inc., by and through its subsidiaries, owns and operates a portfolio of leading online travel brands. our flagship brand is tripadvisor. tripadvisor-branded websites include tripadvisor.com in the united states and localized versions of the website in 48 markets and 28 languages worldwide. tripadvisor features approximately 730 million reviews and opinions on approximately 8.1 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do including 1.3 million hotels, inns, b&amp;bs and specialty lodging, 875,000 rental properties, 4.9 million restaurants and 1.0 million travel activities and experiences worldwide. we also enable consumers to compare prices and/or book a number of these travel experiences on either a tripadvisor website or mobile app, or on the website or mobile app of one of our travel partners. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we manage and operate the following other travel media brands, connected by the common goal of providing consumers the most comprehensive travel-planning and trip-taking resources in the travel industry: www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bokun.io, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, and www.iens.nl), www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.housetrip.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.smartertravel.com, www.tingo.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and www.viator.com. 70 seasonality traveler expenditures in the global travel market tend to follow a seasonal pattern. as such, advertising investments made by travel partners to market to potential travelers and, therefore, our revenue and profits tend to be seasonal as well. our financial performance tends to be seasonally highest in the second and third quarters of a year, as it is a key period for leisure travel research and trip-taking, which includes the seasonal peak in traveler hotel and rental stays, and travel activities and experiences taken, compared to the first and fourth quarters which represent seasonal low points. further significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends. note 2: significant accounting policies basis of presentation and consolidation the accompanying consolidated financial statements include tripadvisor, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and entities we control, or in which we have a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary of expected cash profits or losses. all inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. additionally, certain prior period amounts have been reclassified for comparability with the current period presentation. the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( gaap ). we believe that the assumptions underlying our consolidated financial statements are reasonable. however, these consolidated financial statements do not present our future financial position, the results of our future operations and cash flows. one of our subsidiaries that operates in china has variable interests in affiliated entities in china in order to comply with chinese laws and regulations, which restrict foreign investment in internet content provision businesses. although we do not own the capital stock of these chinese affiliates, we consolidate their results as we are the primary beneficiary of the cash losses or profits of these variable interest affiliates and have the power to direct the activity of these affiliates. our variable interest entities' financials were not material for all periods presented. accounting estimates we use estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with gaap. our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of our consolidated financial statements. these estimates and assumptions also affect the reported amount of net income or loss during any period. our actual financial results could differ significantly from these estimates. the significant estimates underlying our consolidated financial statements include: (i) recognition and recoverability of goodwill, definite-lived intangibles and other long-lived assets; and (ii) accounting for income taxes. refer to note 11: income taxes for further discussion of our significant income tax amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. revenue recognition refer to note 4: revenue recognition for a discussion about our revenue recognition policies and other financial disclosures. cost of revenue cost of revenue consists of expenses that are directly related or closely correlated to revenue generation, including direct costs, such as credit card and other booking transaction payment fees, data center costs, costs associated with prepaid tour tickets, ad serving fees, flight search fees, and other transaction costs. in addition, cost of revenue includes personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses for certain customer support personnel who are directly involved in revenue generation. selling and marketing selling and marketing expenses primarily consist of direct costs, including traffic generation costs from sem and other online traffic acquisition costs, syndication costs and affiliate program commissions, social media costs, 71 brand advertising, television and other offline advertising, promotions and public relations. in addition, our sales and marketing expenses consist of indirect costs such as personnel and overhead expenses, incl uding salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and bonuses for sales, sales support, customer support and marketing employees . we incur advertising expense, which includes traffic generation costs from sem and other online traffic costs, affiliate program commissions, display advertising, social media, and other online, and offline (primarily television) advertising expense, promotions and public relations to promote our brands. we expense the costs associated with communicating the advertisements in the period in which the advertisement takes place. we expense the production costs associated with advertisements in the period in which the advertisement first takes place. for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recorded advertising expense of $544 million, $629 million, and $543 million, respectively, in selling and marketing expense on our consolidated statements of operations. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, we had $2 million and $5 million, respectively, of prepaid advertising expenses included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheets. we expect to fully expense our prepaid advertising asset of $2 million as of december 31, 2018 to the consolidated statement of operations during 2019. technology and content technology and content expenses consist primarily of personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries and benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and bonuses for salaried employees and contractors engaged in the design, development, testing, content support, and maintenance of our websites and mobile apps. other costs include licensing, maintenance expense, computer supplies, telecom costs, content translation costs, and consulting costs . general and administrative general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead costs, including personnel engaged in leadership, finance, legal, and human resources, as well as stock-based compensation expense for those same personnel. general and administrative costs also include professional service fees and other fees including audit, legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including bad debt expense, non-income taxes, such as sales, use and other non-income related taxes . stock-based compensation stock options. the exercise price for all stock options granted by us has been equal to the market price of the underlying shares of common stock at the date of grant. in this regard, when making stock option awards, our practice is to determine the applicable grant date and to specify that the exercise price shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. our stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and typically vest equally over a four-year requisite service period. we amortize the grant-date fair value of our stock option grants as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. the estimated grant-date fair value of stock options is calculated using a black-scholes merton option-pricing model ( black-scholes model ). the black-scholes model incorporates assumptions to fair value stock-based awards, which includes the risk-free rate of return, expected volatility, expected term and expected dividend yield. our risk-free interest rate is based on the rates currently available on zero-coupon u.s. treasury issues, in effect at the time of the grant, whose remaining maturity period most closely approximates the stock option's expected term assumption. our expected volatility is calculated by equally weighting the historical volatility and implied volatility on our own common stock. historical volatility is determined using actual daily price observations of our common stock price over a period equivalent to or approximate to the expected term of our stock option grants to date. implied volatility represents the volatility calculated from the observed prices of our actively traded options on our common stock, with remaining maturities in excess of six months and market prices approximate to the exercise prices of the stock option grant. we estimate our expected term using historical exercise behavior and expected post-vest termination data. our expected dividend yield is zero, as we have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date and do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. 72 restricted stock units. rsus are stock awards that are granted to employees entitling the holder to shares of our common stock as the award vests. rsus are measured at fair value based on the quoted price of our common stock at the date of grant. we amor tize the fair value of rsus as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term, which is typically four years on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fa ir value of the award that is vested at that date. performance-based awards. performance-based stock options and rsus vest upon achievement of certain company-based performance conditions and a requisite service period. on the date of grant, the fair value of a performance-based award is calculated using the same method as our service based stock options and rsus described above. we then assess whether it is probable that the individual performance targets would be achieved. if assessed as probable, compensation expense will be recorded for these awards over the estimated performance period. at each reporting period, we will reassess the probability of achieving the performance targets and the performance period required to meet those targets. the estimation of whether the performance targets will be achieved and of the performance period required to achieve the targets requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, the cumulative effect on current and prior periods of those changes will be recorded in the period estimates are revised, or the change in estimate will be applied prospectively depending on whether the change affects the estimate of total compensation cost to be recognized or merely affects the period over which compensation cost is to be recognized. the ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation expense recognized will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. market-based performance rsus, or market-based rsus ( msus ), vest upon achievement of specified levels of market conditions. the fair value of our msus is estimated at the date of grant using a monte-carlo simulation model. the probabilities of the actual number of market-based performance units expected to vest and resultant actual number of shares of common stock expected to be awarded are reflected in the grant date fair values; therefore, the compensation expense for these awards will be recognized assuming the requisite service period is rendered and are not adjusted based on the actual number of awards that ultimately vest. estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive these awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of our original estimates of fair value. the company accounts for forfeitures in the period in which they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. income taxes we record income taxes under the asset and liability method. deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. we determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted income tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. we consider all relevant factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as assessing available tax planning strategies. we may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. we classify deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent on our consolidated balance sheet. we record liabilities to address uncertain tax positions we have taken in previously filed tax returns or that we expect to take in a future tax return. the determination for required liabilities is based upon an analysis of each individual tax position, taking into consideration whether it is more likely than not that our tax position, based on technical merits, will be sustained upon examination. 73 cash and cash equivalents our cash consists of cash deposits held in global financial institutions. our cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments, including money market funds and marketable debt securities, with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase. short-term and long-term marketable securities we classify our marketable debt securities as either short-term or long-term based on each instrument's underlying contractual maturity date and as to whether and when we intend to sell a particular security prior to its maturity date. marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 90 days at the date of purchase and 12 months or less remaining at the balance sheet date will be classified as short-term and marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date will generally be classified as long-term. we classify our marketable equity securities, limited by policy to money market funds and mutual funds, as either a cash equivalent, short-term or long-term based on the nature of each security and its availability for use in current operations. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, our marketable debt securities have been classified and accounted for as available-for-sale, and therefore are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a component of stockholders' equity. fair values are determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. we determine the appropriate classification of our marketable securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate the designations at each balance sheet date. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss and providing liquidity of investments sufficient to meet our operating and capital spending requirements and debt repayments. realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities are determined by specific identification of each security's cost basis. we may sell certain of our marketable securities prior to their stated maturities for strategic reasons including, but not limited to, anticipation of credit deterioration, liquidity, and duration management. the weighted average maturity of our total invested cash shall not exceed 18 months, and no security shall have a final maturity date greater than three years, according to our investment policy. we continually review our available for sale securities to determine whether a decline in fair value below the carrying value is other than temporary. when evaluating an investment for other-than-temporary impairment, we review factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below its cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and our intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell the investment before recovery of the investment's cost basis. once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. if we do not intend to sell the security, but it is probable that we will not collect all amounts due, then only the impairment due to the credit risk would be recognized in earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment would be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts accounts receivable are recognized when the right to consideration becomes unconditional and are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. we record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount. our customer invoices are generally due 30 days from the time of invoicing. collateral is not required for accounts receivable. for accounts outstanding longer than the contractual payment terms, we determine an allowance by considering a number of factors, including the length of time trade accounts receivable are past due, previous loss history, a specific customer's ability to pay its obligations to us, and the condition of the general economy and industry as a whole. 74 the following table presents the changes in our allowance for d oubtful accounts for the periods presented: december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) allowance for doubtful accounts: balance, beginning of period $ 16 $ 9 $ 6 charges to earnings 11 8 4 write-offs, net of recoveries and other adjustments (6 ) (1 ) (1 ) balance, end of period $ 21 $ 16 $ 9 derivative financial instruments in certain circumstances, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts ( forward contracts ) to reduce, to the extent practical, our potential exposure to the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. we account for derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value, with any subsequent adjustments to fair value recorded in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of a given subsidiary are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. accordingly, fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward differences. these differences are not expected to be significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which to date, have typically had maturities at inception of 90 days or less. the net cash received or paid related to our derivative instruments are classified in other investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. counterparties to forward contracts consist of major international financial institutions. we monitor our positions and the credit ratings of the counterparties involved and, by policy limits, the amount of credit exposure to any one party. we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. we had not entered into any cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges as of december 31, 2018. refer to note 7: financial instruments and fair value measurements for further disclosure on our derivatives. property and equipment, including website and software development costs we record property and equipment at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. we capitalize certain costs incurred during the application development stage related to the development of websites and internal use software when it is probable the project will be completed and the software will be used as intended. capitalized costs include internal and external costs, if direct and incremental, and deemed by management to be significant. we expense costs related to the planning and post-implementation phases of software and website development as these costs are incurred. maintenance and enhancement costs (including those costs in the post-implementation stages) are typically expensed as incurred, unless such costs relate to substantial upgrades and enhancements to the website or software resulting in added functionality, in which case the costs are capitalized. we compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which is three to five years for computer equipment, capitalized software and website development, office furniture and other equipment. we depreciate leasehold improvements using the straight-line method, over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the improvement or the remaining term of the lease. leases we lease office space in many countries around the world under non-cancelable lease agreements. we generally lease our office facilities under operating lease agreements. office facilities subject to an operating lease and the related lease payments are not recorded on our balance sheet. the terms of certain lease agreements provide for rental payments on a graduated basis, however, we recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease 75 period in accordance with gaap. any lease incentives are recognized as reductions of rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. the lease term beg ins on the date we become legally obligated for the rent payments or when we take possession of the office space, whichever is earlier. we establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under lease arrangements where we are considered the owner for accounting purposes only, or build-to-suit leases, to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance under gaap. if we continue to be the deemed owner, for accounting purposes, the facilities are accounted for as financing obligations. we also establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to return certain of our leased facilities to their original condition for asset retirement obligations. such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated restoration costs and are included in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. our asset retirement obligations were not material as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017, respectively. refer to note 2: significant accounting policies , under the section new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted, for information on the potential impact of new lease accounting guidance on our property leases which the company will adopt on january 1, 2019 . business combinations we account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting which requires that the tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired and assumed liabilities be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. any excess purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. when determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets may include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from customer and supplier relationships, acquired technology and trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. any changes to provisional amounts identified during the measurement period, calculated as if the accounting had been completed as of the acquisition date, are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. goodwill and intangible assets goodwill we assess goodwill, which is not amortized, for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. goodwill is assigned to reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination as of the acquisition date. we evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. once goodwill has been allocated to the reporting units, it no longer retains its identification with a particular acquisition and becomes identified with the reporting unit in its entirety. accordingly, the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is available to support the recoverability of its goodwill. the company has the option to qualitatively assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. in the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we generally first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50%) that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. periodically, we may choose to forgo the initial qualitative assessment and proceed directly to a quantitative analysis to assist in our annual evaluation. when assessing goodwill for impairment, our decision to perform a qualitative impairment assessment for an individual reporting unit in a given year is influenced by a number of factors, including, but not limited to the size of the 76 reporting unit's goodwill, the significance of the excess of the reporting unit's estimated fair value over carrying value at the last quantitative assessment date, the amount of time in between quantitative fair value assessments from the date of acquisition to establish an updated baseline quantitative analysis, and other performance and market indicators. dur ing a qualitative assessment, if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, we then perform a quantitative assessment and compare the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value. if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estim ated fair value, the goodwill impairment is measured using the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the reporting unit ; however, any loss recognized cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. in determining the estimated fair values of reporting units in a quantitative goodwill impairment test, we generally use a blend, of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (discounted cash flows model) and the market valuation approach, which we believe compensates for the inherent risks of using either model on a stand-alone basis. the discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of the reporting unit; income tax rates and working capital effects. the market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business and other precedent transactions. our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and/or income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. we believe that the estimated fair values assigned to our reporting units in impairment tests are based on reasonable assumptions that marketplace participants would use. however, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. the use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments could trigger the need for an impairment charge, or materially increase or decrease the amount of any such impairment charge. during the company's annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2018, a qualitative assessment for each of our reporting units' goodwill was performed and we concluded it was not more likely than not that an impairment existed. accordingly, we did not proceed to a quantitative assessment or recognize any impairment charges during the year ending december 31, 2018. as part of our qualitative assessment for our 2018 goodwill impairment analysis of our reporting units, the factors that we considered included, but were not limited to: (a) changes in macroeconomic conditions in the overall economy and the specific markets in which we operate, (b) our ability to access capital, (c) changes in the online travel industry, (d) changes in the level of competition, (e) evaluation of current and future forecasted financial results of the reporting units, (f) comparison of our current financial performance to historical and budgeted results of the reporting units, (g) change in excess of the company's market capitalization over its book value, (h) changes in estimates, valuation inputs, and/or assumptions since the last quantitative analysis of the reporting units, (i) changes in the regulatory environment; (j) changes in strategic outlook or organizational structure and leadership of the reporting units; and (k) other relevant factors, and how these factors might impact specific performance in future periods. however, as we periodically reassess estimated future cash flows and asset fair values, changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material impairment charges in the future. intangible assets intangible assets with estimable useful lives, or definite-lived intangibles, are carried at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment upon certain triggering events. we routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives of definite-lived intangible assets. if we reduce the estimated useful life assumption, the remaining unamortized balance is amortized over the revised estimated useful life. 77 intangible assets that have indefinite lives are not amortized and are tested for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or when ever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. similar to the qualitative assessment for goodwill, we may assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necess ary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, we compare the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived asset with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of an individual indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its implied fair value, the individual asset is written down by an amount equal to such excess. the assessment of qualitative factors is optional and at our discretion. we ma y bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. we base our quantitative measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, using the relief-from-royalty method. this method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. this method requires us to estimate future revenues, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital, h owever, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. the use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments could trigger the need for an impairment charge, or materially increase or decrease the amount of any such impairment charge . the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets that is subject to annual assessment for impairment is $30 million at december 31, 2018 and consists of trademarks and tradenames. during the company's annual indefinite-lived intangible impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2018, a qualitative assessment was performed. as part of our qualitative assessment we considered, amongst other factors, the amount of excess fair value of our trade names and trademarks to the carrying value of those same assets, changes in estimates, and valuation input assumptions, since our previous quantitative analysis. after considering these factors and the impact that changes in such factors would have on the inputs used in our previous quantitative assessment, we determined that it was more likely than not that our indefinite-lived intangible assets were not impaired as of december 31, 2018. impairment of long-lived assets we periodically review the carrying amount of our definite-lived intangible assets and other long-term assets, including property and equipment and website and internal use software, to determine whether current events or circumstances indicate that such carrying amounts may not be recoverable. factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. if such facts indicate a potential impairment, we assess the recoverability of the asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset of the group. if the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows, using an appropriate discount rate. any impairment would be measured by the amount that the carrying values, of such asset groups, exceed their fair value and would be included in operating income on the consolidated statement of operations. considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate the fair value of asset groups. accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. we have not identified any circumstances that would warrant an impairment charge for any recorded definite-lived intangibles or other long term assets on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2018. deferred merchant payables in our rentals free-to-list model and our experiences offerings, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts, net of commissions, on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant payables. we pay the suppliers, or the vacation rental owners and tour providers, respectively, after the travelers' use. therefore, we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying the supplier and this operating cycle represents a 78 working capital source or use of cash to us. our deferred merchant payables balance was $164 million and $156 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, on our consolidated balan ce sheets. foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses our consolidated financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars. certain of our subsidiaries outside of the united states use the related local currency as their functional currency and not the u.s. dollar. therefore assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate in effect at the applicable reporting date, and the consolidated statements of operations are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the applicable period. the resulting unrealized cumulative translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet. we also have subsidiaries that have transactions in foreign currencies other than their functional currency. transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise. subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transaction gains and losses which are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations as unrealized (based on the applicable period-end exchange rate) or realized upon settlement of the transactions. accordingly, we have recorded net foreign currency exchange losses of $6 million, gains of $1 million, and losses of $6 million for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statement of operations. these amounts also include transaction gains and losses, both realized and unrealized from forward contracts. fair value measurements and disclosures we apply fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. we measure assets and liabilities at fair value based on the expected exit price, which is the amount that would be received on the sale of an asset or amount paid to transfer a liability, as the case may be, in an orderly transaction between market participants in the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact. as such, fair value may be based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement date. the authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value on either a recurring or nonrecurring basis whereby inputs, used in valuation techniques, are assigned a hierarchical level. gaap provides the following hierarchical levels of inputs used to measure fair value: level 1 valuations are based on quoted market prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. level 2 valuations are based on observable inputs other than quoted market prices included in level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. level 3 valuations are based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. these valuations require significant judgment. certain risks and concentrations our business is subject to certain risks and concentrations, including concentration related to dependence on our relationships with our customers. for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 our two most significant travel partners, expedia (and its subsidiaries) and booking (and its subsidiaries), each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and combined accounted for 37%, 43% and 46%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue, with nearly all of this revenue concentrated in our hotel segment. in addition, refer to note 18: segment and geographic information for disclosure on our concentrations for geographic revenue and products. financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk, consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, corporate debt securities, forward contracts, and accounts receivable. we maintain some cash and cash equivalents balances with financial institutions that are in excess of federal deposit insurance corporation 79 insurance limits. our cash and cash equivalents are primarily composed of bank account balances with financial institutions primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, euros , british pound , and australian dollars, as well as, money market funds. we invest in highly-rated corporate debt securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. our credit risk re lated to corporate debt securities is also mitigated by the relatively short maturity period required by our investment policy. forward contracts are transacted with various international financial institutions with high credit standings, which to date, ha ve typically had maturities of less than 90 days. our overall credit risk related to accounts receivable is mitigated by the relatively short collection period. contingent liabilities periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. we provide disclosure in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both these conditions if there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred that would be material to the consolidated financial statements. significant judgment may be required to determine the probability that a liability has been incurred and whether such liability is reasonably estimable. we base accruals made on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from the amounts included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. treasury stock shares of our common stock repurchased are recorded at cost as treasury stock and result in the reduction of stockholders' equity in our consolidated balance sheet. we may reissue these treasury shares. when treasury shares are reissued, we use the average cost method for determining the cost of reissued shares. if the issuance price is higher than the cost, the excess of the issuance price over the cost is credited to additional paid-in-capital. if the issuance price is lower than the cost, the difference is first charged against any credit balance in additional paid-in-capital from the previous issuances of treasury stock and any remaining balance is charged to retained earnings. earnings per share ( eps ) refer to note 5: earnings per share for a discussion about how we compute basic eps and diluted eps. new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted in august 2018, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued new accounting guidance which require a customer in a cloud computing arrangement (i.e., hosting arrangement) that is a service contract to follow the internal-use software guidance to determine which implementation costs to capitalize as assets or expense as incurred. the accounting for the cost of the hosting component of the arrangement (i.e., service costs the customer pays for the cloud computing service) is not affected by this new guidance. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, including adoption in any interim period. entities have the option to apply the guidance retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. we are currently considering our timing of adoption and the transition application method. we are also in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in june 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on the measurement of credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, which includes accounts receivable, and available-for-sale debt securities. for financial assets measured at amortized cost, this new guidance requires an entity to: (1) estimate its lifetime expected credit losses upon recognition of the financial assets and establish an allowance to present the net amount expected to be collected; (2) recognize this allowance and changes in the allowance during subsequent periods through net income; and (3) consider relevant information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts in assessing the lifetime expected credit losses. for available-for-sale debt securities, this new guidance made several targeted amendments to the existing other-than-temporary impairment model, including: (1) 80 r equiring disclosure of the allowance for credit losses; (2) allowing reversals of the previously recognized credit losses until the entity has the intent to sell, is more-likely-than-not required to sell the securities or the maturity of the securities; (3 ) limiting impairment to the difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value; and (4) not allowing entities to consider the length of time that fair value has been less than amortized cost as a factor in evaluating whether a credit loss exists. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, including interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018. we are curr ently considering our timing of adoption and in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in february 2016, the fasb issued new guidance related to accounting for leases. the new standard amends the existing standards for lease accounting and includes the requirement for lessee recognition of right-of-use (rou) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases with a term longer than twelve months, which will be initially measured at the present value of the future lease payments over the lease term. under the new guidance, leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases, with classification affecting the pattern and presentation of expenses and cash flows on our consolidated financial statements. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. in july 2018, the fasb issued additional guidance on the accounting for leases which provides companies with an additional transition method, which allows companies to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of the date of adoption. under this transition method, previously presented years' financial positions and financial results would not be adjusted. we will adopt the new standard on january 1, 2019 and use the effective date as our date of initial application based on the modified retrospective approach without adjusting the comparative periods presented. consequently, we will not update our consolidated financial statements or provide any disclosures required under the new standard for dates and periods prior to january 1, 2019. the new guidance provides a number of optional practical expedients and exemptions available upon adoption and for ongoing accounting. we plan to elect the following practical expedients: 1) the practical expedients package of three , which allows us at transition to continue to maintain prior accounting conclusions under the existing guidance for leases as of the adoption date, such as whether any expired or existing contracts contain leases, the classification of leases, and the accounting treatment for initial direct costs; thereby not being required to reassess these positions upon adoption of the new standard; 2) the short-term lease recognition exemption , which allows us to forego recognition of rou assets and lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet for leases with a lease term of twelve months or less and which also do not include an option to renew the lease term that we are reasonably certain to exercise; 3) elect by asset class as an accounting policy, to combine lease and non-lease components as a single component and subsequently account for the combined single component as the lease component; and 4) apply the portfolio approach to similar types of leases where the company does not reasonably expect the outcome to differ materially from applying the new guidance to individual leases. in anticipation of adoption, we have updated our accounting policies to reflect the accounting rules within the new guidance and have completed the implementation of our lease accounting software to support our accounting process, financial reporting and the new financial disclosure requirements. we expect to implement certain new internal controls surrounding our lease accounting process upon the adoption of the new guidance. we currently expect the primary effects of adoption of this new guidance to be as follows: office space leases. we expect our office space leases, except for our headquarters lease, to remain operating leases which we will recognize rou assets and corresponding lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet under the new guidance. we expect to recognize rou assets ranging from $70 million to $80 million and lease liabilities of approximately $85 million to $95 million based on the present value of the remaining rental payments for these office space leases as of january 1, 2019. the difference in the rou asset and the lease liability is the result of balances already recognized related to deferred and prepaid rent balances. in addition, we do not expect our short-term lease costs, variable lease costs, primarily from rental payments that are adjusted periodically for inflation, and our initial direct costs, to be material to our consolidated financial statements. 81 corporate headquarters lease . we are deemed the owner for accounting purposes of our corporate headquarters building under existing gaap. refer to not e 14 commitments and contingencies for additional information on the accounting under existing gaap for our headquarters lease. upon adoption of the new guidance, we expect to derecognize amounts in property and equipment, net and other long-term liabili ties on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2018 of approximately $62 million and $70 million, respectively, with the difference recorded to our opening balance of retained earnings as of the adoption date. we expect our headquarters lease to be classified and accounted for as a finance lease under the new guidance as of january 1, 2019. accordingly, we expect to then recognize an rou asset ranging from $105 million to $120 million and a lease liability of approximately $85 million to $95 mil lion based on the initial measurement of the present value of the remaining lease payments over the remaining lease term. the difference between the rou asset and lease liability relates to a net prepaid rent balance. we do not anticipate the income tax impact to be material to our consolidated financial statements from the adoption of this guidance. we also do not expect the adoption of this new guidance will have a material impact, either on an annual or quarterly basis, to our consolidated statement of operations and consolidated statement of cash flows on a go-forward basis. we expect to expand financial disclosure concerning leasing activity, including qualitative and quantitative disclosures. recently adopted accounting pronouncements in august 2018, the sec adopted a final rule under sec release no. 33-10532, disclosure update and simplification , that amends certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded. the amendments also expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements, in which registrants must now analyze changes in stockholders' equity, in the form of reconciliation, for the current and comparative year-to-date periods, with subtotals for each interim period, which the company will begin applying this disclosure change in stockholders' equity analysis in its march 31, 2019, form 10-q. this final rule is effective on november 5, 2018 and we assessed the impact on our consolidated financial statements disclosures to be not significant. in may 2017, the fasb issued new accounting guidance that clarifies when changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award must be accounted for as modifications which will reduce diversity in practice. under the new guidance, an entity will not apply modification accounting to a share-based payment award if the award's fair value (or calculated value or intrinsic value, if those measurement methods are used), the award's vesting conditions, and the award's classification as an equity or liability instrument are the same immediately before and after the change. the guidance also states that an entity is not required to estimate the value of the award immediately before and after the change if the change does not affect any of the inputs to the model used to value the award. we adopted this guidance prospectively in the first quarter of 2018 and the adoption did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. we believe the new guidance will likely result in fewer changes to the terms of an award being accounted for as modifications. in january 2017, the fasb issued new accounting guidance to clarify the definition of a business and provide additional guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as asset acquisitions (or asset disposals) or business combinations (or disposals of a business). under this new guidance, an entity first determines whether substantially all of the fair value of the assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. if this criterion is met, the transaction should be accounted for as an asset acquisition as opposed to a business combination. this distinction is important because the accounting for an asset acquisition significantly differs from the accounting for a business combination. this new guidance eliminates the requirement to evaluate whether a market participant could replace missing elements (e.g. inputs or processes), narrows the definition of outputs and requires that a business include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. we adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2018 and it will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring within and after the adoption date. the adoption did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in november 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on the classification and presentation of 82 restricted cash in the statement of cash flows to address the diversity in practice. this new guidance requires entities to show changes in cash, cash equiv alents and restricted cash on a combined basis in the statement of cash flows. in addition, this accounting guidance requires a reconciliation of the total cash, cash equivalent and restricted cash in the statement of cash flows to the related captions in the balance sheet if cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash are presented in more than one line item in the balance sheet. we adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2018 and applied it retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financ ial statements as required under the new guidance. the adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in october 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on income tax accounting associated with intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. this accounting update, which is part of the fasb's simplification initiative, is intended to reduce diversity in practice and the complexity of tax accounting, particularly for those transfers involving intellectual property. this new guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. we adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of 2018 on a modified retrospective basis. accordingly, we recognized the cumulative effect of initial application of this new guidance as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings, which was not material to our consolidated financial statements. in august 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which clarifies how companies present and classify certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. the new guidance specifically addresses the following cash flow topics in an effort to reduce diversity in practice: (1) debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs; (2) settlement of zero-coupon bonds; (3) contingent consideration payments made after a business combination; (4) proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims; (5) proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies, including bank-owned life insurance policies; (6) distributions received from equity method investees; (7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions; and (8) separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principle. we adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of 2018 retrospectively and the adoption did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in january 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which amends the standard on the recognition and measurement of financial instruments. the fasb clarified certain aspects of this guidance by issuing an update for technical corrections and improvements related to this guidance in february 2018. the guidance (1) requires an entity to measure equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method or those that result in consolidation of the investee) at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income rather than accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet; (2) allows an entity to elect to measure the equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value using a new measurement alternative which measure these equity investments at cost less impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer; (3) simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment; and (4) clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity's evaluation of their other deferred tax assets. we adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2018 and elected to prospectively account for our investments in equity securities of privately-held companies that do not have a readily determinable fair value using the measurement alternative. the adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. in may 2014, the fasb issued new accounting guidance on revenue from contracts with customers, or asc 606, revenue from contracts with customers ( asc 606 ), which replaced numerous requirements in gaap, and provides companies with a single model for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers. the core principle of the new standard is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. this guidance also requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. in addition, the fasb has also issued several amendments to the standard, which clarifies certain aspects of the guidance, including principal versus agent considerations and identifying performance obligations. 83 in the first quarter of 2018, we adopted asc 606 under the modified retrospective method for all contracts that were not completed as of january 1, 2018. results for reporting periods beginning after january 1, 2018 are presented under the new revenue guidance, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our previous accounting policies under the historical revenue guidance, or asc 605, revenue recognition . we evaluated each of our revenue streams and applied asc 606 as further discussed in note 4: revenue recognition . as a result of adoption of the new revenue guidance, certain revenue streams, such as our hotel instant booking revenue recorded under the consumption model which we previously recorded upon completion of the traveler stay, is now recognized upon booking. the amount of the recognized transaction price for the commission is recorded as revenue net of the impact of estimated cancellations. we also recorded an adjustment to capitalize certain costs to obtain contracts for existing arrangements as of the implementation date. we expect the adoption of this new revenue standard will not have a material impact, either on an annual or quarterly basis, to our consolidated financial statements on an ongoing basis. our systems and internal controls were not significantly impacted as a result of the accounting changes and we have made the necessary changes to our accounting policies and internal processes to support the new revenue recognition standard, including the related disclosures. we recognized the cumulative effect of initial application of asc 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. we recorded a net increase in opening retained earnings of $4 million as of january 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue guidance and all other accounts were not materially impacted. note 3: acquisitions and other investments during the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2016, we acquired businesses which were accounted for as purchases of businesses under the acquisition method. the fair value of purchase consideration has been allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date, with the remaining amount recorded to goodwill. acquired goodwill represents the premium we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. we paid a premium in each of these transactions for a number of reasons, including expected operational synergies, the assembled workforces, and the future development initiatives of the assembled workforces. the results of each of these acquired businesses have been included in the consolidated financial statements beginning on the respective acquisition dates. pro-forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented as the financial impact to our consolidated financial statements, both individually and in aggregate, would not be materially different from historical results. for both the years ended december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2016 acquisition-related costs which were expensed as incurred, were not material and are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. 2018 acquisition of business during the year ended december 31, 2018, we acquired one business for a purchase price and net cash consideration of $23 million. the cash consideration was paid from our u.s. cash. the purchase price consideration of $23 million was allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. the following summarizes the final allocation, in millions: total goodwill (1) $ 11 intangible assets (2) 14 deferred tax liabilities, net (2 ) total purchase price consideration (3) $ 23 (1) goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. 84 (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2018 were comprised of supplier relationships of $6 million with a weighted average life of 10 years and technology and other of $8 million with a weighted average life of approximately 6 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of this business during 2018 was 8 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) subject to adjustment based on indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of certain acquired company stockholders. 2016 acquisitions of businesses and other investments during the year ended december 31, 2016, we completed five acquisitions of certain businesses with a total purchase price of $34 million. the company paid net cash consideration of $29 million, which is net of $4 million of cash acquired, and includes $1 million in future holdback payments, which we currently expect to settle with company common stock over the next two years. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our u.s. cash. the aggregate purchase price consideration of $34 million was allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. the following summarizes the final allocation, in millions: total goodwill (1) $ 17 intangible assets (2) 25 net tangible assets (liabilities) (3) (8 ) total purchase price consideration (4) $ 34 (1) goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2016 were comprised of trade names of $4 million with a weighted average life of 10 years, customer lists and supplier relationships of $4 million with a weighted average life of 6 years, subscriber relationships of $5 million with a weighted average life of approximately 7 years, and technology and other of $12 million with a weighted average life of approximately 5 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of these businesses during 2016 was 6 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) primarily includes cash acquired of $4 million, accounts receivable of $2 million, and liabilities assumed, including accrued expenses and deferred merchant payables of $3 million and $10 million, respectively, which reflect their respective fair values at acquisition. (4) subject to adjustment based on indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of certain acquired company stockholders. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we also invested a total of $14 million in the equity securities of privately-held companies. the cash consideration was paid primarily from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these investments were recorded to other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheet on the investment date. note 4: revenue recognition revenue recognition under asc 606 we generate all of our revenue from contracts with customers. we recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of the promised services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those services. when we act as an agent in the transaction under asc 606, we recognize revenue for only our commission on the arrangement. we determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract (3) determination of the transaction price 85 (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation. at contract inception, we assess the services promised in our contracts with customers and identify a performance obligation for each promise to transfer to the customer a service (or bundle of services) that is distinct. to identify the performance obligations, we consider all of the services promised in the contract regardless of whether they are explicitly stated or are implied by customary business practices. we have provided qualitative information about our performance obligations for our principal revenue streams discussed below. there was no significant revenue recognized in the year ended december 31, 2018 related to performance obligations satisfied in prior periods. we have applied a practical expedient and do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations that have an original expected duration of less than one year, and we do not have any material unsatisfied performance obligations over one year. the value related to our remaining or partially satisfied performance obligations relates to subscription services that are satisfied over time or services that are recognized at a point in time, but not yet achieved. our timing of services, invoicing and payments are discussed in more detail below and do not include a significant financing component. our customer invoices are generally due 30 days from the time of invoicing. we recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year. although the substantial majority of our contract costs have an amortization period of less than one year, we have determined contract costs arising from certain sales incentives have an amortization period in excess of one year given the high likelihood of contract renewal. sales incentives are not paid upon renewal of these contracts and therefore are not commensurate with the initial sales incentive costs. total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were approximately $2 million as of december 31, 2018. we amortize these contract costs on a straight-line basis over the estimated customer life, which is based on historical customer retention rates . amortization expense recorded to selling and marketing during the year ended december 31, 2018 was not material. we assess such assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. the recognition of revenue may require the application of judgment related to the determination of the performance obligations, the timing of when the performance obligations are satisfied and other areas. the determination of our performance obligations does not require significant judgment given that we generally do not provide multiple services to a customer in a transaction, and the point in which control is transferred to the customer is readily determinable. in instances where we recognize revenue over time, we generally have either a subscription service that is recognized over time on a straight-line basis using the time-elapsed output method, or based on other output measures that provide a faithful depiction of the transfer of our services. when an estimate for cancellations is included in the transaction price, we base our estimate on historical cancellation rates. there have been no significant adjustments to our cancellation estimates and the cancellation estimates are not material. taxes assessed by a government authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue producing transaction, that are collected by us from a customer, are reported on a net basis, or in other words excluded from revenue on our consolidated financial statements, which is consistent with prior periods. the application of our revenue recognition policies and a description of our principal activities, organized by segment, from which we generate our revenue, are presented below. hotel segment tripadvisor-branded click-based advertising and transaction revenue . our largest source of hotel segment revenue is generated from click-based advertising on tripadvisor-branded websites, which is primarily comprised of contextually-relevant booking links to our travel partners' sites. our click-based travel partners are predominantly otas, and direct suppliers in the hotel category. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cpc basis, with payments from travel partners determined by the number of travelers who click on a link multiplied by the cpc rate for each specific click. cpc rates that our travel partners pay are determined in a dynamic, competitive auction process, also known as our metasearch auction. we record click-based advertising revenue as the click occurs and traveler leads are sent to the travel partner websites as our performance obligation is fulfilled at that time. click-based revenue is generally billed to our travel partners on a monthly basis consistent with the timing of the service. transaction revenue is generated from our hotel instant booking feature, which enables hotel 86 shoppers to book directly with a travel partner, with the latter serving as the merchant of record for the transaction , without leaving our website. we earn a commission from our travel partner for each consumer that completes a hotel reservation on our website; based on a pre-determined commission rate. our hotel instant booking revenue includes (i) arrangements where commissions are billable on all instant booking hotel reservations; and (ii) arrangements where the commission is billable only upon the completion of the traveler's stay resulting from the reservation. the travel partner provides the service to the traveler and we act as an agent under asc 606. our performance obligation in both arrangements is com plete at the time of the booking and the commission earned is recognized upon booking, as we have no post-booking service obligations. the amount of revenue recognized for commissions which are billable contingent upon a traveler stay requires an estimate of the impact of cancellations using historical cancellation rates. contract assets are recognized at the time of booking for commissions that are billable at the time of stay. tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription revenue . travel partners can promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner through a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites. our display-based advertising clients are predominantly direct suppliers of hotels, airlines and cruises, as well as destination marketing organizations. we also sell display-based advertising to otas and other travel related businesses, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. the performance obligation in our display-based advertising business is to display a number of advertising impressions on our websites and we recognize revenue for impressions as they are delivered. services are generally billed monthly. we have applied the practical expedient to measure progress toward completion, as we have the right to invoice the customer in an amount that directly corresponds with the value to the customer of our performance to date, which is measured based on impressions delivered. in addition, we offer subscription-based advertising to hoteliers, owners of b&amp;bs and other specialty lodging properties. our performance obligation is generally to enable subscribers to advertise their businesses on our website, as well as manage and promote their website url, email address, phone number, special offers and other information related to their business. subscription advertising services are predominantly sold for a flat fee for a contracted period of time of one year or less and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of the subscription service as efforts are expended evenly throughout the contract period. subscription advertising services are generally billed in advance of service. when prepayments are received, we recognize deferred revenue for the amount of prepayment in excess of revenue recognized until the performance obligation is satisfied. other hotel revenue. our other hotel revenue primarily includes revenue from non-tripadvisor-branded websites, such as www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.onetime.com and www.smartertravel.com, which primarily includes click-based advertising and display-based advertising revenue. the performance obligations, timing of customer payments for these brands and methods of recognizing revenue are generally consistent with click-based advertising or display-based advertising revenue, as described above. non-hotel segment we provide information and services for consumers to research, book and experience activities and attractions in popular travel destinations both through viator, our dedicated experiences offering, and on our tripadvisor website and mobile apps. we also power travel activities and experiences booking capabilities to consumers on affiliate partner websites, including some of the world's top airlines, hotel chains, and online and offline travel agencies. we work with local tour or travel activities/experiences operators ( the supplier ) to provide our consumers with access to book tours, activities and experiences ( the activity ) in popular destinations worldwide. we generate commissions for each booking transaction we facilitate through our online reservation system. we provide post-booking service to the consumer until the time of the activity, which is the completion of the performance obligation. revenue is recognized at the time that the activity occurs. we do not control the activity before the supplier provides the activity to our consumers and therefore act as agent for nearly all of these transactions under asc 606. we generally collect payment from the consumer at the time of booking that includes both our commission revenue and the amount due to the supplier. our commission revenue is recorded as deferred revenue until revenue is recognized, and the amount due to the supplier is recorded to deferred merchant payables on our consolidated balance sheet, until payment is made to the supplier after the completion of the activity. to a lesser extent, we earn commissions from third-party merchant partners, who display and promote our supplier activities on 87 their websites to generate bookings. in these transactions, where we are not the merchant of record, we generally invoice and receive commissions directly from the third-party merchant partners. our performance obligation is to allow the third-party merchant partners to display and promote our supplier activities on their website and we earn a commission when consumers book and complete an activity. we do no t control the service and act as an agent for these transactions under asc 606. our performance obligation is complete and revenue is recognized at the time of the booking, as we have no post-booking obligations. we recognize this revenue net of an estimat e of the impact of cancellations using historical cancellation rates. contract assets are recognized for commissions that are billable contingent upon completion of the activity. we also provide information and services for consumers to research and book restaurants in popular travel destinations through our dedicated restaurant reservations offering, thefork, and on our tripadvisor website and mobile apps. thefork is an online restaurant booking platform operating on a number of websites (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, and www.iens.nl), with a network of restaurant partners located primarily across europe and australia. our bookable restaurants are available on www.thefork.com and on tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. we primarily generate transaction fees (or per seated diner fees) that are paid by restaurants for diners seated primarily from bookings through thefork's online reservation system. the transaction fee is recognized as revenue after the reservation is fulfilled, or as diners are seated by our restaurant customers. revenue is billed monthly when the transaction fees are payable, which is at the time the diner is seated. to a lesser extent, we also generate subscription fees for subscription-based advertising to restaurants, access to certain online reservation management services and marketing analytic tools provided by thefork and tripadvisor. as the performance obligation is to provide restaurants with access to these services over the subscription period, subscription fee revenue is recognized over the period of the subscription service on a straight-line basis as efforts are expended evenly throughout the contract period. subscription fees are generally billable in advance of service. when prepayments are received, we recognize deferred revenue for the amount of prepayment in excess of revenue recognized until the performance obligation is satisfied. in addition, we provide information and services for travelers to research and book vacation and short-term rental properties, including full home rentals, condominiums, villas, beach rentals, cabins and cottages. our rentals offering generates revenue primarily by offering individual property owners and managers the ability to list their properties on our websites and mobile apps thereby connecting homeowners with travelers through a free-to-list, commission-based option or, to a lesser extent, by an annual subscription-based fee structure. these properties are listed on www.flipkey.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com, www.niumba.com, and www.vacationhomerentals.com, and on our tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. we earn commissions associated with rental transactions through our free-to-list model from both the traveler and the property owner or manager. we provide post-booking service to the travelers, property owners and managers until the time the rental commences, which is the time the performance obligation is completed. revenue from transaction fees is recognized at the time that the rental commences. we act as an agent, under asc 606, in the transactions as we do not control any properties before the property owner provides the accommodation to the traveler and do not have inventory risk. we generally collect payment from the traveler at the time of booking that includes our commissions, which is recorded as deferred revenue until revenue is recognized, and the amount due to the property owner, which is recorded in deferred merchant payables on our consolidated balance sheet, until payment is made to the property owner after the completion of the rental. payments for term-based subscription fees related to online advertising services for the listing of rental properties are generally due in advance. as the performance obligation is the listing service provided to the property owner or manager over the subscription period, revenue is recognized over the period of the subscription service on a straight-line basis as efforts are expended evenly throughout the contract period. we recognize deferred revenue for the amount of prepayment in excess of revenue recognized until the performance obligation is satisfied. practical expedients and exemptions we expense costs to obtain a contract as incurred, such as sales incentives, when the amortization period would have been one year or less. 88 we do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which w e have the right to invoice for services performed. impact of adoption of asc 606 the impact of the new guidance was not meaningful as of and for the year ended december 31, 2018 for the consolidated statement of operations, consolidated balance sheet, and consolidated statement of cash flows, respectively. disaggregation of revenue we disaggregate revenue from contracts with customers into major products/revenue sources. we have determined that disaggregating revenue into these categories achieves the disclosure objective to depict how the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors. as noted in note 18: segment and geographic information , our business consists of two reportable segments hotel and non-hotel. a reconciliation of disaggregated revenue to segment revenue is also included below. year ended december 31, 2018 major products/revenue sources: (in millions) tripadvisor-branded click-based advertising and transaction revenue $ 722 tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription revenue 308 other hotel revenue 127 total hotel revenue (1) 1,157 non-hotel revenue (1) 458 total revenue $ 1,615 (1) our revenue is recognized primarily at a point in time for both our hotel and non-hotel segments. contract balances the following table provides information about the opening and closing balances of accounts receivables and contract assets from contracts with customers (in millions): december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 accounts receivable $ 205 $ 230 contract assets 7 total $ 212 $ 230 accounts receivable are recognized when the right to consideration becomes unconditional. contract assets are rights to consideration in exchange for services that we have transferred to a customer when that right is conditional on something other than the passage of time, such as commission payments that are contingent upon the completion of the service by the principal in the transaction. contract liabilities generally include payments received in advance of performance under the contract, and are realized as revenue as the performance obligation to the customer is satisfied, which we present as deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. as of january 1, 2018, we had $59 million recorded as deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheet, of which $57 million was recognized in revenue and $2 million was refunded due to cancellations by travelers during the year ended december 31, 2018. the difference between the opening and closing balances of our deferred revenue primarily results from the timing differences between when we receive customer payments and the time in which we satisfy our performance obligations. the difference between the opening and closing balances of our contract assets primarily results from the timing difference between when we satisfy our performance obligations and the time 89 when the principal completes the service in the transaction. there were no signi ficant changes in contract assets or deferred revenue during the year ended december 31, 2018 related to business combinations, impairments, cumulative catch-ups or other material adjustments . note 5: earnings per share basic earnings per share attributable to common stockholders we compute basic earnings per share, or basic eps, by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. we compute the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period using the total of common stock and class b common stock outstanding as of the last day of the previous year end reporting period plus the weighted average of any additional shares issued and outstanding less the weighted average of any common shares repurchased during the reporting period. diluted earnings per share attributable to common stockholders diluted earnings per share, or diluted eps, includes the potential dilution of common equivalent shares outstanding that could occur from stock-based awards and other stock-based commitments using the treasury stock method. we compute diluted eps by dividing net income (loss) by the sum of the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. we computed the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period using the sum of (i) the number of shares of common stock and class b common stock used in the basic eps calculation as indicated above, and (ii) if dilutive, the incremental weighted average common stock that we would issue upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common equivalent shares, primarily related to stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units using the treasury stock method, and (iii) if dilutive, performance-based and market-based awards based on the number of shares that would be issuable as of the end of the reporting period assuming the end of the reporting period was also the end of the contingency period. under the treasury stock method, the assumed proceeds calculation includes the actual proceeds to be received from the employee upon exercise of outstanding equity awards and the average unrecognized compensation cost during the period. the treasury stock method assumes that a company uses the proceeds from the exercise of an equity award to repurchase common stock at the average market price for the reporting period. in periods of a net loss, common equivalent shares are excluded from the calculation of diluted eps as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. accordingly, for periods in which we report a net loss, diluted eps is the same as basic eps, since dilutive common equivalent shares are not assumed to have been issued if their effect is anti-dilutive. 90 below is a reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding in calculating diluted eps (shares in thousands and dollars in millions, except per share amounts) for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 numerator: net income (loss) $ 113 $ (19 ) $ 120 denominator: weighted average shares used to compute basic eps 138,116 140,445 145,443 weighted average effect of dilutive securities: stock options 351 - 1,129 rsus/msus 1,908 - 321 weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps 140,375 140,445 146,893 basic eps $ 0.82 $ (0.14 ) $ 0.83 diluted eps $ 0.81 $ (0.14 ) $ 0.82 potential common shares, consisting of outstanding stock options and rsus, totaling approximately 6.2 million, 12.5 million, and 3.9 million, respectively, for the years ending december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, have been excluded from the calculations of diluted eps because their effect would have been antidilutive. in addition, potential common shares of approximately 0.5 million, 0.6 million, and 0.1 million, respectively, for the years ending december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, consisting of performance-based awards, for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved, were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. the earnings per share amounts are the same for common stock and class b common stock because the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share distributions whether through dividends or in liquidation. note 6: stock based awards and other equity instruments stock-based compensation expense the following table presents the amount of stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards, primarily stock options and rsus, on our consolidated statements of operations during the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) cost of revenue $ 1 $ - $ - selling and marketing 21 21 20 technology and content 51 40 40 general and administrative 45 35 25 total stock-based compensation expense 118 96 85 income tax benefit from stock-based compensation expense (27 ) (28 ) (31 ) total stock-based compensation expense, net of tax effect $ 91 $ 68 $ 54 we capitalized $13 million, $13 million and $12 million of stock-based compensation expense as internal-use software and website development costs during the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 91 stock and incentive plans on december 20, 2011, our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan (the 2011 plan ) became effective and we filed post-effective amendment no. 1 on form s-8 to registration statement on form s-4 (file no. 333-178637) (the prior registration statement ) with the sec, registering a total of 17,500,000 shares of our common stock, of which 17,400,000 shares were issuable in connection with grants of equity-based awards under our 2011 plan (7,400,000 of which shares were originally registered on the form s-4 and 10,000,000 of which shares were first registered on the prior registration statement) and 100,000 shares were issuable under our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (refer to note 15: employee benefit plans below for information on our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors). at our annual meeting of stockholders held on june 28, 2013, our stockholders approved an amendment to our 2011 plan to, among other things, increase the aggregate number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance thereunder by 15,000,000 shares. on june 21, 2018, our stockholders approved the 2018 stock and annual incentive plan (the 2018 plan ) primarily for the purpose of providing sufficient reserves of shares of our common stock to ensure our ability to continue to provide new hires, employees and management with equity incentives. the number of shares reserved and available for issuance under the 2018 plan is 6,000,000 plus the number of shares available for issuance (and not subject to outstanding awards) under the 2011 plan, as of the effective date of the 2018 plan. both plans provide for the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and other stock-based awards to our directors, officers, employees and consultants, although no additional awards will be granted pursuant to the 2011 plan. the summary of the material terms of both the 2018 plan and its predecessor, the 2011 plan, is qualified in its entirety by the full texts of the 2018 plan and 2011 plan previously filed. as of december 31, 2018, the total number of shares reserved for future stock-based awards under the 2018 plan is approximately 13.5 million shares. all shares of common stock issued in respect of the exercise of options or other equity awards have been issued from authorized, but unissued common stock. stock based award activity and valuation 2018 stock option activity during the year ended december 31, 2018, we have issued 762,124 service-based non-qualified stock options under both the 2018 plan and the 2011 plan. our stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and typically vest equally over a four-year requisite service period. 92 a summary of our stock option activity is presented below: weighted weighted average average exercise remaining aggregate options price per contractual intrinsic outstanding share life value (in thousands) (in years) (in millions) options outstanding as of december 31, 2015 5,720 $ 53.71 granted 1,064 63.43 exercised (1) (733 ) 31.58 cancelled or expired (233 ) 70.76 options outstanding as of december 31, 2016 5,818 57.60 granted (2) 2,333 40.03 exercised (1) (496 ) 29.37 cancelled or expired (802 ) 65.13 options outstanding as of december 31, 2017 6,853 52.78 granted 762 43.53 exercised (1) (1,162 ) 37.26 cancelled or expired (412 ) 61.46 options outstanding as of december 31, 2018 6,041 $ 54.00 6.5 $ 47 exercisable as of december 31, 2018 3,217 $ 61.85 4.7 $ 15 vested and expected to vest after december 31, 2018 (3) 6,041 $ 54.00 6.5 $ 47 (1) inclusive of 814,635, 294,410, and 318,773 options as of december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, which were not converted into shares due to net share settlement in order to cover the aggregate exercise price and the required amount of employee withholding taxes. potential shares which had been convertible under stock options that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2018 plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. (2) inclusive of 780,000 stock options awarded to our chief executive officer and president, or ceo, during november 2017. the estimated grant-date fair value per option, using a black-scholes option pricing model was $17.33. these stock options shall vest in equal installments on each of august 1, 2021 and august 1, 2022, subject to the ceo's continuous employment with, or performance of services for, the company. the estimated grant-date fair value of this award will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period through august 1, 2022. (3) the company accounts for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures as allowed under gaap and therefore do not include a forfeiture rate in our vested and expected to vest calculation unless necessary for a performance condition award. aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the closing stock price of our common stock and the exercise price of outstanding, in-the-money options. our closing stock price as reported on nasdaq as of december 31, 2018 was $53.94. the total intrinsic value of stock options exercised for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $20 million, $8 million, and $24 million, respectively. the fair value of stock option grants has been estimated at the date of grant using the black scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for the periods presented: december 31, 2018 2017 2016 risk free interest rate 2.70 % 2.02 % 1.20 % expected term (in years) 5.45 6.13 4.85 expected volatility 41.86 % 42.14 % 41.81 % expected dividend yield % % % 93 the weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted was $18.11, $16.50, and $22.95 for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. the total fair value of stock options vested for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $38 million, $40 million, and $28 million, respectively. cash received from stock option exercises for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $6 million, $3 million, and $7 million, respectively. on june 5, 2017, the section 16 committee of our board of directors approved an amendment to the nonqualified stock option award (the option ) granted on august 28, 2013 to stephen kaufer, the company's ceo. the amendment provided that the option will expire on the tenth anniversary, instead of the seventh anniversary, of the grant date. vesting conditions under the option were not affected by this amendment. as a result of the modification, incremental fair value of $5 million was recognized to stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining vesting term, or through august 2018, in general and administrative expense on the consolidated statement of operations. 2018 rsu activity during the year ended december 31, 2018, we granted 3,302,689 primarily service-based rsus under the 2018 plan and the 2011 plan, which typically vest over a four-year requisite service period. a summary of our rsu activity is presented below: weighted average grant- aggregate rsus date fair intrinsic outstanding value per share value (in thousands) (in millions) unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2015 1,750 $ 79.02 granted 2,016 63.71 vested and released (1) (627 ) 76.02 cancelled (283 ) 73.06 unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2016 2,856 69.35 granted (2)(3) 4,829 41.58 vested and released (1) (1,030 ) 67.25 cancelled (853 ) 52.64 unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2017 5,802 48.81 granted 3,302 43.04 vested and released (1) (1,617 ) 54.22 cancelled (847 ) 46.43 unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2018 6,640 $ 44.93 $ 358 expected to vest after december 31, 2018 (4) 6,640 $ 44.93 $ 358 (1) inclusive of 424,848, 301,932, and 173,429 rsus as of december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, withheld due to net share settlement to satisfy required employee tax withholding requirements. potential shares which had been convertible under rsus that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2018 plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. 94 (2) inclusive o f 426,000 service-based rsus awarded to our ceo during november 2017. t he service-based rsu award provides for vesting in two equal annual installments on each of august 1, 2021 and august 1, 2022, subject to the ceo's continuous employment with, or performance of services for, the company. the estimated grant-date fair value per rsu, based on the quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant, was $34.71. the estimated grant-date fair value of this award will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period through august 1, 2022. (3) excludes from the 2017 rsu grants, a performance-based rsu grant for 213,000 shares awarded to our ceo during november 2017. this award provides for vesting based on the extent to which the company achieves certain financial and/or the ceo achieves certain strategic performance metrics relative to the targets to be established by the company's compensation committee. one quarter of these rsus may vest and settle annually based on actual performance relative to the targets established annually for each of the four fiscal years ending december 31, 2018, december 31, 2019, december 31, 2020, and december 31, 2021. the estimated grant-date fair value per rsu will be calculated upon the establishment of annual performance targets and each tranche will be amortized on a straight-line basis over its requisite service period. at any point in time during the vesting period, the award's expense to date will at least equal the portion of the grant-date fair value that is expected to vest at that date. based upon actual attainment relative to the target performance metrics, the ceo has the ability to receive up to 125% of the target number originally granted, or to be issued none at all. (4) the company accounts for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures as allowed under gaap and therefore do not include a forfeiture rate in our vested and expected to vest calculation unless necessary for a performance condition award. a summary of our rsu activity for msus is presented below: weighted average grant- aggregate msus date fair intrinsic outstanding value per share value (in thousands) (in millions) unvested msus outstanding as of december 31, 2016 - $ - granted (1) 213 30.04 vested and released - cancelled - unvested msus outstanding as of december 31, 2017 213 30.04 granted (2) 71 59.40 vested and released - - cancelled - - unvested msus outstanding as of december 31, 2018 284 $ 37.41 $ 15 (1) represents 213,000 market-based rsu or msus awarded to the company's ceo in november 2017. the msu award provides for vesting based upon the company's total shareholder return, or tsr, performance over the period commencing january 1, 2018 through december 31, 2020 relative to the tsr performance of the nasdaq composite total return index. based upon actual attainment relative to the target performance metric, the ceo has the ability to receive up to 125% of the target number of msus originally granted, or to be issued none at all. (2) msus provide for vesting based upon the company's total shareholder return, or tsr, performance over the period commencing january 1, 2018 through december 31, 2020 relative to the tsr performance of the nasdaq composite total return index. based upon actual attainment relative to the target performance metric, the grantee has the ability to receive up to 200% of the target number of msus originally granted, or to be issued none at all. these msus were granted under the 2011 plan. a monte-carlo simulation model, which simulated the present value of the potential outcomes of future stock prices and tsr of the company and the nasdaq composite total return index over the performance period, was used to calculate the grant-date fair value of our msu awards. the estimated grant-date fair value of these awards is being amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period through december 31, 2020. 95 unrecognized stock-based compensation a summary of our remaining unrecognized compensation expense and the weighted average remaining amortization period at december 31, 2018 related to our non-vested equity awards is presented below (in millions, except in years information): stock options rsus msus unrecognized compensation expense $ 37 $ 218 $ 7 weighted average period remaining (in years) 2.8 2.6 2.0 note 7: financial instruments and fair value measurements cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities the following tables show our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term and long-term available-for-sale marketable debt securities, by major security type, that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and were categorized using the fair value hierarchy, as well as their classification on our consolidated balance sheets, as of the periods presented (in millions): december 31, 2018 cash, cash short-term long-term amortized fair equivalents and marketable marketable cost value (2) restricted cash securities securities cash and restricted cash (1) $ 522 $ 522 $ 522 $ $ level 1: money market funds 128 128 128 level 2: commercial paper 20 20 5 15 total $ 670 $ 670 $ 655 $ 15 $ december 31, 2017 cash, cash short-term long-term amortized fair equivalents and marketable marketable cost value (2) restricted cash securities securities cash and restricted cash (1) $ 663 $ 663 $ 663 $ $ level 1: money market funds 1 1 1 level 2: u.s. agency securities 11 11 6 5 u.s. treasury securities 1 1 1 certificates of deposit 2 2 2 commercial paper 11 11 9 2 corporate debt securities 46 46 24 22 subtotal 71 71 9 35 27 total $ 735 $ 735 $ 673 $ 35 $ 27 (1) as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, our restricted cash, which primarily consists of escrowed security deposits, was not material and is included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheets. (2) as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, any unrealized gains or losses related to our marketable securities were not material. our cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand in global financial institutions, money market funds and marketable securities, with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase. the remaining maturities of our long-term marketable securities range from one to three years and our short-term marketable securities include maturities that were greater than 90 days at the date purchased and had 12 months or less remaining at december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 96 we classify our cash, cash equivalents, restrict ed cash and marketable securities within level 1 and level 2 as we value these financial instruments using quoted market prices (level 1) or alternative pricing sources (level 2). the valuation technique we used to measure the fair value of money market fu nds was derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. fair values for level 2 marketable securities are considered level 2 valuations because they are obtained from independent pricing sources for identical or comparab le instruments, rather than direct observations of quoted prices in active markets. our procedures include controls to ensure that appropriate fair values are recorded, including comparing the fair values obtained from our independent pricing services agai nst fair values obtained from another independent source. there were no material realized gains or losses related to sales of our marketable securities for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. we consider any unrealized loss positions in our available-for-sale marketable debt securities to be temporary in nature and do not consider any of these investments other-than-temporarily impaired as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017. derivative financial instruments we typically use derivatives, or forward contracts, to reduce the effects of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our cash flows primarily for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. for the periods ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, our forward contracts have not been designated as hedges and have typically had maturities of less than 90 days. our outstanding or unsettled forward contracts are carried at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2018. any gain or loss resulting from the change in fair value of our forward contracts for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, has been recognized in our consolidated statement of operations in interest income and other, net. we recorded a net loss of $3 million and $1 million for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and a net gain of $2 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, related to our forward contracts. the following table shows the notional principal amounts of our outstanding derivative instruments for the periods presented: december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 (in millions) foreign currency exchange-forward contracts (1)(2) $ 13 $ (1) derivative contracts address foreign currency exchange fluctuations for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. the company had two outstanding derivative contracts as of december 31, 2018 and no outstanding derivative contracts as of december 31, 2017. these outstanding derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments. (2) the fair value of our outstanding derivatives as of december 31, 2018 was not material and was reported as a liability in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. we measure the fair value of our outstanding or unsettled derivatives using level 2 fair value inputs, as we use a pricing model that takes into account the contract terms as well as current foreign currency exchange rates in active markets. other financial instruments other financial instruments not measured at fair value on a recurring basis include accounts receivable and contract assets, accounts payable, deferred merchant payables, short-term debt, accrued expenses and other current liabilities and long-term debt. the carrying amount of these financial instruments, with the exception of long-term debt, approximate their fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments as reported on our consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017, respectively. the carrying value of any long-term debt from our 2015 credit facility bears interest at a variable rate and therefore is also considered to approximate fair value. in addition, we hold investments in equity securities of privately-held companies that do not have a readily determinable fair value. as of both december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, the total carrying value of our equity investments in these privately-held companies were $12 million and are included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheets. our policy is to measure these investments at cost less impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar 97 investment of the same i ssuer such observable price changes may include instances where the investee issues equity securities to new investors, thus creating a new indicator of fair value, as an example. on a quarterly basis, we perform a qualitative assessment considering impair ment indicators to evaluate whether these investments are impaired and also monitor for any observable price changes. during the year ended december 31, 2018, we did not have any impairment loss on these equity investments. t he company recognized a loss of $2 million related to one of our equity investments during the year ended december 31, 2017 in interest income and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations . the company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using level 3 unobservable inputs at both december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017. note 8: property and equipment, net property and equipment, net consists of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 (in millions) capitalized software and website development $ 259 $ 213 building (1) 123 123 leasehold improvements 41 39 computer equipment and purchased software 52 46 furniture, office equipment and other 18 19 493 440 less: accumulated depreciation (240 ) (177 ) total $ 253 $ 263 (1) the company is deemed for accounting purposes to be the owner of its corporate headquarters building under gaap, and depreciates the asset over its estimated useful life of 40 years on a straight-line basis. refer to note 14: commitments and contingencies , for additional information on our corporate headquarters lease. as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017, the carrying value of our capitalized software and website development costs, net of accumulated amortization, was $99 million and $97 million, respectively. for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we capitalized $63 million, $65 million and $62 million, respectively, related to software and website development costs. for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recorded amortization of capitalized software and website development costs of $59 million, $54 million and $46 million, respectively, which is included in depreciation expense on our consolidated statements of operations for those years. note 9: goodwill and intangible assets, net the following table summarizes our goodwill activity by reportable segment for the periods presented: hotel non-hotel consolidated (in millions) balance as of december 31, 2016 $ 451 $ 285 $ 736 other adjustments (1) - 22 22 balance as of december 31, 2017 $ 451 $ 307 $ 758 acquisitions (2) - 11 11 other adjustments (1) - (13 ) (13 ) balance as of december 31, 2018 $ 451 $ 305 $ 756 (1) primarily related to impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates to goodwill. (2) the additions to goodwill relate to our business acquisitions. refer to note 3: acquisitions and other investments , for further information. 98 intangible assets, which were acquired in business combinations and recorded at fair value on the date of purchase, consist of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2018 2017 (in millions) intangible assets with definite lives $ 228 $ 224 less: accumulated amortization (140 ) (112 ) intangible assets with definite lives, net 88 112 intangible assets with indefinite lives 30 30 total $ 118 $ 142 amortization expense was $34 million, $32 million, and $32 million, respectively, for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. our indefinite-lived intangible assets relate to trade names and trademarks. there were no impairment charges recognized to our consolidated statement of operations during the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 related to our goodwill or intangible assets. the following table presents the components of our intangible assets with definite lives for the periods presented: december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 weighted average gross net gross net remaining life carrying accumulated carrying carrying accumulated carrying (in years) amount amortization amount amount amortization amount (in millions) (in millions) trade names and trademarks 5.8 $ 57 $ (28 ) $ 29 $ 58 $ (20 ) $ 38 customer lists and supplier relationships 3.6 88 (53 ) 35 87 (43 ) 44 subscriber relationships 3.7 34 (25 ) 9 35 (22 ) 13 technology and other 3.3 49 (34 ) 15 44 (27 ) 17 total 4.3 $ 228 $ (140 ) $ 88 $ 224 $ (112 ) $ 112 refer to note 3: acquisitions and other investments above for a discussion of definite lived intangible assets acquired in business combinations during the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2016. our definite-lived intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis. the straight-line method of amortization is currently our best estimate, or approximates to date, the distribution of the economic use of these intangible assets. the estimated amortization expense for intangible assets with definite lives for each of the next five years, and the expense thereafter, assuming no subsequent impairment of the underlying assets or change in estimate of remaining lives, is expected to be as follows (in millions): 2019 $ 28 2020 22 2021 15 2022 9 2023 7 2024 and thereafter 7 total $ 88 99 note 10: debt 2015 credit facility in june 2015, we entered into a five year credit agreement with a group of lenders which, among other things, provided for a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2015 credit facility ) and immediately borrowed $290 million. in may 2017, the 2015 credit facility was amended to, among other things, (i) increase the aggregate amount of revolving loan commitments available from $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion; and (ii) extend the maturity date of the 2015 credit facility from june 26, 2020 to may 12, 2022 (the first amendment ). borrowings under the 2015 credit facility generally bear interest, at the company's option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the eurocurrency borrowing rate, or the adjusted libo rate for the interest period in effect for such borrowing; plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.25% to 2.00% ( eurocurrency spread ), based on the company's leverage ratio; or (ii) the alternate base rate ( abr ) borrowing, which is the greatest of (a) the prime rate in effect on such day, (b) the new york fed bank rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1.00% per annum and (c) the adjusted libo rate (or libo rate multiplied by the statutory reserve rate) for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%; in addition to an applicable margin ranging from 0.25% to 1.00% ( abr spread ), based on the company's leverage ratio. the company may borrow from the 2015 credit facility in u.s dollars, euros and british pound. during the year ended december 31, 2018, we repaid all of our outstanding borrowings, or approximately $230 million, under the 2015 credit facility. this repayment was primarily made from a one-time cash repatriation of $325 million of foreign earnings to the united states during the year ended december 31, 2018. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we borrowed $435 million and repaid $296 million of our outstanding borrowings under the 2015 credit facility. these net borrowings during the year were primarily used to repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock under the company's repurchase program, which is described in note 16: stockholders equity . during the year ended december 31, 2016, the company borrowed $101 million and repaid $210 million of our outstanding borrowings on the 2015 credit facility. as of december 31, 2018, we had no outstanding borrowings and approximately $1.2 billion of borrowing capacity available under our 2015 credit facility. as of december 31, 2017 we had $230 million of outstanding borrowings under a one-month interest rate period or a weighted average rate of 2.74% per annum. we are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee, at an applicable rate ranging from 0.15% to 0.30%, on the daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility for each fiscal quarter and additional fees in connection with the issuance of letters of credit. as of december 31, 2018, our unused revolver capacity was subject to a commitment fee of 0.15%, given the company's leverage ratio. the 2015 credit facility includes $15 million of borrowing capacity available for letters of credit and $40 million for swingline borrowings on same-day notice. as of december 31, 2018, we had issued $3 million of outstanding letters of credit under the 2015 credit facility. we recorded total interest expense and commitment fees on our 2015 credit facility of $3 million, $6 million and $4 million for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. all unpaid interest and commitment fee amounts as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017, respectively, were not material. we also incurred lender fees and debt financing costs in connection with entering into the 2015 credit facility and in connection with the first amendment totaling $5 million, which were capitalized as deferred financing costs and recorded to other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 31, 2018, the company has $2 million remaining in deferred financing costs in connection with the 2015 credit facility. these costs are being amortized over the remaining term on a straight line basis and recorded to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. there is no specific repayment date prior to the maturity date for any borrowings under this credit agreement. we may voluntarily repay any outstanding borrowing under the 2015 credit facility at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs with respect to eurocurrency loans. additionally, the company believes that the likelihood of the lender exercising any subjective acceleration rights, which would permit the lenders to accelerate repayment of any outstanding borrowings, is remote. as such, we classify any borrowings under this facility as long-term debt. the 2015 credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur additional indebtedness, create liens, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, engage in mergers or consolidations, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends and distributions, make investments, loans or advances, prepay certain subordinated indebtedness, make certain acquisitions, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, amend material agreements governing certain subordinated indebtedness, and change our fiscal year. 100 the 2015 credit faci lity also requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default, including a change of control. if an event of default occurs, the lenders under the 2015 credit facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of all amounts due under the 2015 credit facility. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants . 2016 credit facility we were party to an uncommitted facility agreement which provided for a $73 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2016 credit facility ) with no specific expiration date. we initially borrowed $73 million from this uncommitted credit facility during the year ended december 31, 2016, which was used for general working capital needs of the company primarily for partial repayment of our 2015 credit facility, and repaid the full amount during the year ended december 31, 2017. as of december 31, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under the 2016 credit facility. in june 2018, the company terminated the 2016 credit facility. we had no outstanding borrowings under the 2016 credit facility at the time of termination. chinese credit facilities in addition to our 2015 credit facility, we maintain two credit facilities in china (jointly, the chinese credit facilities ). we are party to a $30 million, one-year revolving credit facility with bank of america (the chinese credit facility boa ) that is currently subject to review on a periodic basis with no specific expiration period. borrowings under our chinese credit facility boa generally bear interest at a rate based on people's bank of china benchmark, including certain adjustments which may be made in accordance with market conditions at the time of borrowing. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under our chinese credit facility boa. we are also party to a rmb 70,000,000 (approximately $10 million) one-year revolving credit facility with j.p. morgan chase bank ( chinese credit facility-jpm ). our chinese credit facility jpm generally bears interest at a rate based on people's bank of china benchmark, including certain adjustments which may be made in accordance with market conditions at the time of borrowing. during the year ended december 31, 2018 we repaid all outstanding borrowings, and as of december 31, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under our chinese credit facility jpm. as of december 31, 2017, we had $7 million of outstanding borrowings from the chinese credit facility jpm at a weighted average interest rate of 5.00%. note 11: income taxes the following table presents a summary of our domestic and foreign income before income taxes: year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) domestic $ 104 $ 81 $ 64 foreign 69 29 87 total $ 173 $ 110 $ 151 101 the following table presents a summary of the components of our provision for income taxes: year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) current income tax expense: federal $ 37 $ 93 $ 38 state 12 1 2 foreign 17 6 11 current income tax expense 66 100 51 deferred income tax expense (benefit): federal (10 ) 25 (12 ) state (1 ) 2 (3 ) foreign 5 2 (5 ) deferred income tax expense (benefit): (6 ) 29 (20 ) provision for income taxes $ 60 $ 129 $ 31 the company reduced its current income tax payable by $15 million, $27 million and $21 million for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, for tax deductions attributable to the exercise or settlement of the company's stock-based awards. the significant components of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: december 31, 2018 2017 (in millions) deferred tax assets: stock-based compensation $ 44 $ 36 net operating loss carryforwards 38 56 provision for accrued expenses 6 4 deferred rent 3 3 lease financing obligation 22 22 foreign advertising spend 15 13 deferred expense related to cost-sharing arrangement 31 26 interest carryforward 14 7 other 10 7 total deferred tax assets $ 183 $ 174 less: valuation allowance (57 ) (55 ) net deferred tax assets $ 126 $ 119 deferred tax liabilities: intangible assets $ (57 ) $ (59 ) property and equipment (22 ) (21 ) prepaid expenses (2 ) (4 ) building - corporate headquarters (23 ) (20 ) deferred income related to cost-sharing arrangement (16 ) (13 ) total deferred tax liabilities $ (120 ) $ (117 ) net deferred tax asset (liability) $ 6 $ 2 at december 31, 2018, we had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards ( nols ) of approximately $6 million, $39 million and $126 million, respectively. if not utilized, the federal and state nols will expire at various times between 2020 and 2037 and the foreign nols will expire at various times between 2019 and 2028. 102 as of december 31, 2018, we had a valuation allowance of approximately of $57 million related to certain nol carryforwards for which it is more likely than not, the tax benefi t will not be realized. this amount represented an overall increase of $2 million over the amount recorded as of december 31, 2017. the increase is primarily related to additional foreign net operating losses, offset by releases of certain foreign valuatio n allowances. except for such foreign deferred tax assets, we expect to realize all of our deferred tax assets based on a strong history of earnings in the u.s. and other jurisdictions, as well as future reversals of taxable temporary differences. a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amounts computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income before income taxes is as follows: year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) income tax expense at the federal statutory rate $ 36 $ 38 $ 53 foreign rate differential (17 ) (25 ) (35 ) state income taxes, net of effect of federal tax benefit 9 5 4 unrecognized tax benefits and related interest 15 12 11 change in cost-sharing treatment of stock-based compensation (3 ) (5 ) (6 ) fdii, gilti and other provisions (5 ) impacts related to the 2017 tax act 73 research tax credit (9 ) (8 ) (10 ) stock-based compensation 8 13 2 change in valuation allowance 9 25 9 local income tax on intercompany transaction (1) 10 executive compensation 2 1 other, net 5 3 provision for income taxes $ 60 $ 129 $ 31 (1) during 2018, we completed an intra-entity transfer from australia to the u.s. of certain intangible property ( ip ) rights associated with a subsidiary's technology platform. this transfer resulted in an income tax expense for australian tax purposes of approximately $10 million. as a result of the ip transfer, we utilized nols and consequently released the valuation allowance on our australian entity. during 2011, the singapore economic development board accepted our application to receive a tax incentive under the international headquarters award. this incentive provides for a reduced tax rate on qualifying income of 5% as compared to singapore's statutory tax rate of 17% and is conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. this agreement has been extended until june 30, 2021 as we have met certain employment and investment thresholds. this benefit resulted in a decrease to our 2018 provision for income tax expense of $2 million. the 2017 tax act was signed into united states tax law on december 22, 2017. the 2017 tax act significantly changed the u.s. corporate income tax regime by, among other things, lowering the u.s. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective january 1, 2018. the 2017 tax act also provided for a mandatory one-time tax on the deemed repatriation of accumulative foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries (the transition tax ), as well as prospective changes beginning in 2018, including additional limitations on executive compensation. under gaap, the effects of changes in income tax rates and laws are recognized in the period in which the new legislation is enacted. on december 22, 2017, the securities and exchange commission issued sab 118, which allowed us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. accordingly, we recorded an estimate of $67 million of transition tax, and $6 million due to a remeasurement of our net deferred tax assets, during the year ended december 31, 2017, which reflected provisional amounts for those specific income tax effects of the 2017 tax act. december 22, 2018 marked the end of the measurement period for the purposes of sab 118 . during the measurement period, impacts of the law were recorded at the time a reasonable estimate for all or a portion of the effects were made, and provisional amounts were recognized and adjusted as information became available, prepared, or analyzed. 103 as permitted by sab 118, we recorded provisional estimates for the impact of the tax act during the year ended december 31, 2017, and have subsequently finalized our accounting analysis based on the guidance, interpretations, and data available as of december 31, 2018. during the year ended december 31, 2018, we recorded a $2 million income tax expense related to the transition tax, which reflects additional information that we obtained during 2018 related to uncertain tax positions, earnings and profits, foreign tax credits, and state taxes. we also rec orded a $2 million benefit related to the adjustment of deferred taxes based on the income tax rate that is expected to apply when such deferred taxes are settled or realized in future periods. we are subject to additional requirements of the 2017 tax act during the year ended december 31, 2018. those provisions include a deduction for foreign derived intangible income ( fdii ), a tax on global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ), a limitation of certain executive compensation, and other immaterial provisions. we have elected to account for gilti as a period cost, and therefore included gilti expense in the effective income tax rate calculation. our 2018 effective income tax rate includes our estimates of these new provisions, with a net tax benefit of $5 million recorded during the year ended december 31, 2018. our estimates may be revised in future periods as we obtain additional data, and as the irs issues new guidance implementing the law changes. by virtue of consolidated income tax returns previously filed with expedia, we are currently under an irs audit for the 2009, 2010, and short-period 2011 tax years, and have various ongoing state income tax audits. we are separately under examination by the irs for the short-period 2011, 2012 and 2013 tax years and under an employment tax audit with the irs for the 2013 and 2014 tax years. these audits include questioning of the timing and the amount of income and deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. these examinations may lead to proposed or ordinary course adjustments to our taxes. we are no longer subject to tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2009. as of december 31, 2018, no material assessments have resulted, except as noted below regarding our 2009 and 2010 irs audit with expedia. in january 2017, as part of the irs audit of expedia, we received notices of proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2009 and 2010 tax years. these proposed adjustments are related to certain transfer pricing arrangements with our foreign subsidiaries, and would result in an increase to our worldwide income tax expense in an estimated range of $10 million to $14 million after consideration of competent authority relief, exclusive of interest and penalties. we disagree with the proposed adjustments and we intend to defend our position through applicable administrative and, if necessary, judicial remedies. our policy is to review and update tax reserves as facts and circumstances change. based on our interpretation of the regulations and available case law, we believe the position we have taken with regard to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries is sustainable. in addition to the risk of additional tax for 2009 and 2010 transactions, if the irs were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, we would be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. in july 2015, the united states tax court (the court ) issued an opinion favorable to altera corporation ( altera ) with respect to altera's litigation with the irs. this opinion was submitted as a final decision under tax court rule 155 during december 2015. the litigation relates to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an inter-company cost-sharing arrangement with altera's foreign subsidiary. in its opinion, the court accepted altera's position of excluding stock based compensation from its inter-company cost-sharing arrangement. the irs appealed the court decision on february 19, 2016. at this time, the u.s. department of the treasury has not withdrawn the requirement from its regulations to include stock-based compensation in intercompany cost-sharing arrangements. the company recorded a tax benefit of $3 million, $5 million and $6 million in its consolidated statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. since the court's 2015 opinion, the company has taken total income tax benefits of $15 million as of december 31, 2018. on july 24, 2018, the irs won the appeals court case at the ninth circuit; however, on august 7, 2018, the ninth circuit withdrew its decision regarding altera and the case was reheard. while we have taken an income tax benefit based on the court's 2015 opinion, as discussed above, we will continue to review the latest decisions on the case and its impact to our consolidated financial statements. cumulative undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately $651 million as of december 31, 2018. during the year ended december 31, 2018, we made a one-time repatriation of $325 million of foreign earnings to the united states primarily to repay our remaining outstanding debt under the 2015 credit facility. we intend to indefinitely reinvest the remaining foreign undistributed earnings although we will continue to 104 evaluate the impact of the 2017 tax act on our capital deployment within and outside the u.s. should we distribute, or be treated under certain u.s. tax rules as having distributed, the earnings of foreign subsidiari es in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to u.s. income taxes or tax benefits. the amount of any unrecognized deferred income tax on this temporary difference is not material. a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits (excluding interest and penalties) is as follows: december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) balance, beginning of year $ 123 $ 105 $ 89 increases to tax positions related to the current year 11 17 16 increases to tax positions related to the prior year 2 1 1 reductions due to lapsed statute of limitations (1 ) decreases to tax positions related to the prior year settlements during current year balance, end of year $ 136 $ 123 $ 105 as of december 31, 2018, we had $136 million of unrecognized tax benefits, net of interest, which is classified as long-term and included in other long-term liabilities and deferred income taxes, net on our consolidated balance sheet. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce income tax expense by $87 million, due to correlative adjustments in other tax jurisdictions. we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense on our consolidated statement of operations. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, total gross interest accrued was $20 million and $13 million, respectively. we do not anticipate any material changes in the next fiscal year. note 12: accrued expenses and other current liabilities accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 (in millions) accrued employee salary, bonus, and related benefits $ 67 $ 60 accrued marketing costs 31 39 current income taxes payable (1) 7 5 current portion of debt (2) - 7 other 46 37 total $ 151 $ 148 (1) refer to note 11: income taxes for additional information. (2) the amount of debt outstanding at december 31, 2017 is related to our chinese credit facilities. refer to note 10: debt , for additional information. 105 note 13: other long-term liabilities other long-term liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 (in millions) unrecognized tax benefits (1) $ 148 $ 127 long-term income taxes payable (2) 31 61 financing obligation, net of current portion (3) 83 84 other (4) 20 21 total $ 282 $ 293 (1) refer to note 11: income taxes for additional information on our unrecognized tax benefits. amount includes accrued interest related to this liability. (2) amount relates to the long-term portion of transition tax related to 2017 tax act. refer to note 11: income taxes , for additional information. (3) refer to note 14: commitments and contingencies , for additional information on our corporate headquarters lease and its related financing obligation. (4) amounts primarily consist of long-term deferred rent balances related to our operating leases for office space. note 14: commitments and contingencies we have material contractual obligations and commercial commitments that include office space leases, expected commitment fees on our 2015 credit facility, and purchase obligations, which are not accrued on the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2018 but we expect to require future cash outflows; as summarized in the following table: by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years (in millions) property leases, net of sublease income (1) $ 193 $ 25 $ 49 $ 43 $ 76 expected commitment fee payments on 2015 credit facility (2) 6 2 3 1 purchase obligations and other (3) 19 7 8 3 1 total (4) $ 218 $ 34 $ 60 $ 47 $ 77 (1) estimated future minimum rental payments under operating leases with non-cancelable lease terms, including our corporate headquarters lease in needham, ma. (2) expected commitment fee payments are based on the daily unused portion of our 2015 credit facility, issued letters of credit, and the effective commitment fee rate as of december 31, 2018; however, these variables could change significantly in the future. refer to note 10: debt for a discussion of the 2015 credit facility with additional information on our available borrowing capacity and effective commitment fee as of december 31, 2018. (3) estimated purchase obligations that are fixed and determinable are primarily related to telecommunication and licensing contracts, with various expiration dates through approximately december 2024. these contracts have non-cancelable terms or are cancelable only upon payment of significant penalty. (4) excluded from the table was $3 million of undrawn standby letters of credit, primarily related to our property leases. office lease commitments we have contractual obligations in the form of operating leases for office space for which we record the related expense on a monthly basis. certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. rent expense related to such leases is recorded on a straight-line basis. excluding our corporate headquarters lease, discussed below, we lease an aggregate of approximately 450,000 square feet of office space at approximately 40 106 other locations across north america, europe and asia pacifi c, in cities such as new york, boston, london, sydney, barcelona, paris, and beijing, primarily for our sales offices, subsidiary headquarters, and international management teams, pursuant to leases with various expiration dates, with the latest expiring i n june 2027. for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recorded rental expense of $16 million in each year, respectively, net of sublease income of $3 million during both the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $2 milli on for the year ended december 31, 2016 , related to these operating leases . in addition, certain of our lease agreements include rental payments which are adjusted periodically for inflation. we recognize these costs as our variable lease costs on our cons olidated statement of operations, which were not material during the year ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. corporate headquarters lease in june 2013, we entered into a lease for a new corporate headquarters building. pursuant to the corporate headquarters lease, the landlord built an approximately 280,000 square foot rental building in needham, massachusetts (the premises ), and leased the premises to the company as our corporate headquarters for an initial term of 15 years and 7 months or through december 2030. the company also has an option to extend the term of the headquarters lease for two consecutive terms of five years each. because we were involved in the construction project and were responsible for paying a significant portion of the costs of normal finish work and structural elements of the premises, the company was deemed for accounting purposes to be the owner of the premises during the construction period under build to suit lease accounting guidance under gaap. therefore, the company recorded project construction costs during the construction period incurred by the landlord as a construction-in-progress asset and a related construction financing obligation on our consolidated balance sheets. the amounts that the company has paid or incurred for normal tenant improvements and structural improvements had also been recorded to the construction-in-progress asset. upon completion of construction at end of the second quarter of 2015, we evaluated the construction-in-progress asset and construction financing obligation for de-recognition under the criteria for sale-leaseback treatment under gaap. we concluded that we had forms of continued economic involvement in the facility, and therefore did not meet the provisions for sale-leaseback accounting. this determination was based on the company's continuing involvement with the property in the form of non-recourse financing to the lessor. therefore, the headquarters lease is accounted for as a financing obligation. accordingly, we began depreciating the building asset over its estimated useful life and incurring interest expense related to the financing obligation imputed using the effective interest rate method. we bifurcate our lease payments pursuant to the premises into: (i) a portion that is allocated to the building (a reduction to the financing obligation) and; (ii) a portion that is allocated to the land on which the building was constructed. the portion of the lease obligations allocated to the land is treated as an operating lease that commenced in 2013. the lease costs allocated to the land are recognized as rent expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease and are recorded in general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations. the financing obligation is considered a long-term finance lease obligation and is recorded to other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. in the years ended december 31 2018, 2017 and 2016, the company recorded $7 million of interest expense in each year, respectively, $3 million of depreciation expense in each year, respectively, and $2 million of rent expense in each year in general and administrative expense, respectively, on our consolidated statements of operations related to the premises. refer to note 2: significant accounting policies , under the new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted , for information on the potential impact of new lease accounting guidance on our property leases which the company will adopt on january 1, 2019. 107 as of december 31, 2018 , future minimum commitments under our corporate headquarters lease and other non-cancelable operating leases for office space with terms of more than one year and contractual sublease income were as follows: year corporate headquarters lease (1) other operating leases sublease income total lease commitments (net of sublease income) (in millions) 2019 $ 9 $ 19 $ (3 ) $ 25 2020 9 18 (2 ) 25 2021 10 16 (2 ) 24 2022 10 16 (2 ) 24 2023 10 9 19 thereafter 67 9 76 total $ 115 $ 87 $ (9 ) $ 193 (1) amount includes an $83 million financing obligation, which we have recorded in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2018, related to our corporate headquarters lease. letters of credit as of december 31, 2018, we have issued unused letters of credit totaling approximately $3 million, primarily related to our property leases, which includes $1 million delivered to the landlord of our corporate headquarters as security deposit, which amount is subject to increase under certain circumstances. legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, we are parties to regulatory and legal matters, including threats thereof, arising out of our operations. these matters may involve claims involving patent and intellectual property rights (including alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights), tax matters (including value-added, excise, transient occupancy and accommodation taxes), regulatory compliance (including competition and consumer matters), defamation and other claims. periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred; and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. we provide disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both of these conditions if there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred that would be material to the consolidated financial statements. we base accruals on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, we do not believe that the final disposition of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business. however, the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from our estimates. finally, there may be claims or actions pending or threatened against us of which we are currently not aware and the ultimate disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on us. all legal fees incurred by the company related to any regulatory and legal matters are expensed in the period incurred. income taxes we are under audit by the irs and various other domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to income tax matters. we have reserved for potential adjustments to our provision for income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period for which that determination is made. we continue to accumulate cash flows, in foreign jurisdictions which we consider indefinitely reinvested, although we will continue to evaluate the impact of the 2017 tax act on our capital deployment within and outside the u.s. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in u.s. income taxes or tax 108 benefits . refer to note 11: income taxes for further information on potential contingencies surrounding income taxes. note 15: employee benefit plans retirement savings plan the tripadvisor retirement savings plan (the 401(k) plan ), qualifies under section 401(k) of the internal revenue code. the 401(k) plan allows participating employees, most of our u.s. employees, to make contributions of a specified percentage of their eligible compensation. participating employees may contribute up to 50% of their eligible salary on a pre-tax basis, but not more than statutory limits. employee-participants age 50 and over may also contribute an additional amount of their salary on a pre-tax tax basis up to the irs catch-up provision limit (or catch-up contributions ). employees may also contribute into the 401(k) plan on an after-tax basis up (or roth 401(k) contributions ) to an annual maximum of 10%. the 401(k) plan has an automatic enrollment feature at 6% pre-tax. we match 50% of the first 6% of employee contributions to the plan for a maximum employer contribution of 3% of a participant's eligible earnings. the catch-up contributions are not eligible for employer matching contributions. the matching contributions portion of an employee's account, vests after two years of service. additionally, at the end of the 401(k) plan year, we make a discretionary matching contribution to eligible participants. this additional discretionary matching employer contribution (or true up ) is limited to match only contributions up to 3% of eligible compensation. we also have various defined contribution plans for our international employees. our contribution to the 401(k) plan and our international defined contribution plans which are recorded in our consolidated statement of operations for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $13 million, $9 million, and $9 million, respectively. tripadvisor, inc. deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors the company also has a deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (the plan ). under the plan, eligible directors who defer their directors' fees may elect to have such deferred fees (i) applied to the purchase of share units, representing the number of shares of our common stock that could have been purchased on the date such fees would otherwise be payable, or (ii) credited to a cash fund. the cash fund will be credited with interest at an annual rate equal to the weighted average prime or base lending rate of a financial institution selected in accordance with the terms of the plan and applicable law. upon termination of service as a director of tripadvisor, a director will receive (i) with respect to share units, such number of shares of our common stock as the share units represent, and (ii) with respect to the cash fund, a cash payment. payments upon termination will be made in either one lump sum or up to five annual installments, as elected by the eligible director at the time of the deferral election. under the 2011 plan, 100,000 shares of tripadvisor common stock are available for issuance to non-employee directors. from the inception of the plan through december 31, 2018, a total of 4,645 shares have been reserved for such purpose. tripadvisor, inc. executive severance plan and summary plan description effective august 7, 2017, the company adopted an executive severance plan and summary plan description (the severance plan ) applicable to certain employees of the company and its subsidiaries. the severance plan formalizes and standardizes the company's severance practices for certain designated employees (each, a participant and, collectively, the participants ). participants covered by the severance plan generally will be eligible to receive severance benefits in the event of a termination by the company without cause or, under certain circumstances, by the participant for good reason. the severance benefits differ if there is a termination of employment in connection with a change in control. the severance benefits provided pursuant to the severance plan are determined based on the job classification of the participants (as reflected in internal job profile designations) and, in certain cases, their years of service with the company. 109 under the severance plan, in the event of a termination by the company without cause more than three months prior to a change in control or more than twelve months following a change in control, the severance benefits for the participant generally shall consist of the following: continued payment of base salary for a period of six to eighteen months following the date of such participant's termination of employment; and continuation of coverage under the company's health insurance plan through the company's payment of cobra premiums for a period of six to eighteen months following the date of such participant's termination of employment. under the severance plan, in the event of a termination by the company without cause or by the participant for good reason, in each case within three months prior to or twelve months following a change in control, the severance benefits for the participant shall consist of the following: payment of a lump sum amount equal to (i) twelve to twenty-four months of the participant's base salary, plus (ii) the participant's target bonus multiplied by 1, 1.5 or 2; and payment of a lump sum amount equal to the premiums required to continue the participant's medical coverage under the company's health insurance plan for a period of twelve to twenty-four months. the foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the executive severance plan and summary plan description incorporated herein by reference as exhibit 10.23 to this annual report on form 10-k. during the year end december 31, 2018, severance recorded under the severance plan in our consolidated statement of operations was not material. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we recorded $1 million of severance under the severance plan in our consolidated statement of operations. note 16: stockholders' equity preferred stock in addition to common stock, we are authorized to issue up to 100 million preferred shares, with $ 0.001 par value per share, with terms determined by our board of directors, without further action by our stockholders. as of december 31, 2018, no preferred shares had been issued. common stock and class b common stock our authorized common stock consists of 1.6 billion shares of common stock with par value of $0.001 per share, and 400 million shares of class b common stock with par value of $0.001 per share. both classes of common stock qualify for and share equally in dividends, if declared by our board of directors. common stock is entitled to one vote per share and class b common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. holders of tripadvisor common stock, acting as a single class, are entitled to elect a number of directors equal to 25% percent of the total number of directors, rounded up to the next whole number, which was two directors as of december 31, 2018. class b common stockholders may, at any time, convert their shares into common stock, on a one for one share basis. upon conversion, the class b common stock is retired and is not available for reissue. in the event of liquidation, dissolution, distribution of assets or winding-up of tripadvisor the holders of both classes of common stock have equal rights to receive all the assets of tripadvisor after the rights of the holders of the preferred stock have been satisfied. there were 137,158,010 and 125,101,322 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, respectively, and 12,799,999 shares of class b common stock issued and outstanding at december 31, 2018. 110 accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) accumulated other comprehensive loss is primarily comprised of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments, as follows for the periods presented: december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 (in millions) cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments (1) $ (62 ) $ (42 ) total accumulated other comprehensive loss (2) $ (62 ) $ (42 ) (1) due to our intention to indefinitely reinvest foreign subsidiary earnings in those operations; deferred taxes are not provided on foreign currency translation adjustments. (2) our accumulated net unrealized gain (loss) on available for sale debt securities was not material as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017. treasury stock on february 15, 2013, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of $250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we repurchased 2,002,356 shares of the company's outstanding common stock under this share repurchase program at an average cost of $52.33 per share, exclusive of fees and commissions, or $105 million in the aggregate, and completed this share repurchase program authorized by our board of directors. on january 25, 2017, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of $250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we repurchased a total of 6,079,003 shares of the company's outstanding common stock under this share repurchase program at an average share price of $41.13, exclusive of fees and commissions, or $250 million in the aggregate, and completed this share repurchase program. as of december 31, 2017, there were 9,474,490 shares of the company's common stock held in treasury with an aggregate cost of $447 million. on january 31, 2018, our board of directors authorized an additional repurchase of up to $250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. this share repurchase program has no expiration date but may be suspended or terminated by the board of directors at any time. during the year ended december 31, 2018, we repurchased 2,582,198 shares of our outstanding common stock at an average share price of $38.73 per share, exclusive of fees and commissions, or $100 million in the aggregate. as of december 31, 2018, we had a remaining $150 million available to repurchase shares of our common stock under this share repurchase program. as of december 31, 2018, there were 12,056,688 shares of the company's common stock held in treasury with an aggregate cost of $547 million. our board of directors authorized and directed management, working with the executive committee of our board of directors, to affect the share repurchase programs discussed above in compliance with applicable legal requirements. dividends during the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, our board of directors did not declare any dividends on our outstanding common stock and do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. our ability to pay dividends is also limited by the terms of our 2015 credit facility. 111 note 17: related party transactions relationship between expedia and tripadvisor upon consummation of the spin-off, expedia was considered a related party under gaap based on a number of factors, including, among others, common ownership of our shares and those of expedia. however, we no longer consider expedia a related party. for purposes of governing certain of the ongoing relationships between us and expedia at and after the spin-off, and to provide for an orderly transition, we and expedia entered into various agreements at the time of the spin-off, which tripadvisor has satisfied its obligations. however, tripadvisor continues to be subject to certain post spin-off obligations under the tax sharing agreement. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. the full text of the tax sharing agreement is incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k as exhibit 10.2. refer to note 11: income taxes above for information regarding the status of completed and ongoing irs audits of our consolidated income tax returns with expedia to date. relationship between liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. and tripadvisor we consider liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. ( ltrip ) a related party. as of december 31, 2018, ltrip beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock, which constitute 14.5% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 22.5% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 57.7% of our voting power. refer to note 1: organization and business description above, which describes the evolution of our relationship with ltrip. we had no related party transactions with ltrip during the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016. note 18: segment and geographic information our reporting structure includes two reportable segments: hotel and non-hotel. our non-hotel segment consists of the aggregation of three operating segments: experiences, restaurants and rentals. the nature of the services provided are summarized in note 4: revenue recognition . our operating segments are determined based on how our chief operating decision maker manages our business, regularly assesses information and evaluates performance for operating decision-making purposes, including allocation of resources. the chief operating decision maker for the company is our ceo. adjusted ebitda is our segment profit measure and a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate the operating performance of our business and on which internal budgets and forecasts are based and approved. in particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted ebitda can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. accordingly, we believe that adjusted ebitda provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. we define adjusted ebitda as net income (loss) plus: (1) provision for income taxes; (2) other income (expense), net; (3) depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal use software and website development; (4) amortization of intangible assets; (5) stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations; (6) goodwill, long-lived asset and intangible asset impairments; (7) legal reserves and settlements; and (8) non-recurring expenses and income. during 112 the fourth quarter of 2018, the company revised its adjusted ebitda definition to exclude legal reserves and settlements, as the company beli eves these costs are not directly tied to the core operations of our business. the company believes that excluding these amounts better enables management and investors to compare segment financial results between periods as these costs may vary independen t of business performance. this revision to our adjusted ebitda definition did not have a material impact to our segment financial results for any period prior to the year ended december 31, 2018, therefore no reclassifications have been made to conform th e prior periods to the current period presentation. the following tables present our segment information for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, and includes a reconciliation of adjusted ebitda to net income. we record depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations, legal reserves and settlements, other income (expense), net, other non-recurring expenses and income, net, and income taxes, which are excluded from segment operating performance, in corporate and unallocated. in addition, we do not report our assets, capital expenditures and related depreciation expense by segment as our chief operating decision maker does not use this information to evaluate operating segments. accordingly, we do not regularly provide such information by segment to our chief operating decision maker. intersegment revenue is not material and, in addition, already eliminated in the information by segment provided to our chief operating decision maker. our consolidated general and administrative expenses, excluding stock-based compensation costs, are shared by all operating segments. each operating segment receives an allocated charge based on the segment's percentage of the company's total personnel costs. year ended december 31, 2018 hotel non-hotel corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,157 $ 458 $ $ 1,615 adjusted ebitda (1) 356 66 422 depreciation (82 ) (82 ) amortization of intangible assets (34 ) (34 ) stock-based compensation (118 ) (118 ) legal reserves and settlements (5 ) (5 ) operating income 183 other expense, net (10 ) income before income taxes 173 provision for income taxes (60 ) net income $ 113 year ended december 31, 2017 hotel non-hotel corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,196 $ 360 $ $ 1,556 adjusted ebitda (1) 286 45 331 depreciation (79 ) (79 ) amortization of intangible assets (32 ) (32 ) stock-based compensation (96 ) (96 ) operating income 124 other expense, net (14 ) income before income taxes 110 provision for income taxes (2) (129 ) net loss $ (19 ) 113 year ended december 31, 2016 hotel non-hotel corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,190 $ 290 $ $ 1,480 adjusted ebitda (1) 380 (28 ) 352 depreciation (69 ) (69 ) amortization of intangible assets (32 ) (32 ) stock-based compensation (85 ) (85 ) operating income 166 other expense, net (15 ) income before income taxes 151 provision for income taxes (31 ) net income $ 120 (1) includes allocated general and administrative expenses in our hotel segment of $77 million, $81 million and $80 million; and in our non-hotel segment of $50 million, $42 million and $38 million for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. (2) the year ended december 31, 2017 reflects $67 million of transition tax and $6 million of tax expense recorded due to the remeasurement of net deferred tax assets related to the 2017 tax act enacted on december 22, 2017. refer to note 11: income taxes for further information. revenue and geographic information our revenue sources within our hotel segment, which are tripadvisor-branded click-based and transaction revenue, tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription revenue; and other hotel revenue, which along with our non-hotel revenue source, comprise our products. the following table presents revenue by source for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) tripadvisor-branded click-based and transaction $ 722 $ 756 $ 750 tripadvisor-branded display-based advertising and subscription 308 292 282 other hotel revenue 127 148 158 non-hotel revenue 458 360 290 total revenue $ 1,615 $ 1,556 $ 1,480 114 during the fourth quarter of 2018, the company revised the basis in which it measures geographic revenue information to the physical location of the tripadvisor subsidiary which generates the revenue, which is consistent with o ur measurement of long-lived physical assets, or property and equipment, net. this change had no effect on our consolidated financial statements. the geographic classification is independent of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using the company's services, or the location of the travel service provider, experience operator or restaurant. for example, a reservation made through tripadvisor.com at a hotel in the u.s. by a consumer in the u.s. could be part of the com pany's non-u.s. revenue. all prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. these reclassifications also had no effect on our consolidated financial statements. year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) revenue united states $ 835 $ 802 $ 718 united kingdom 508 530 564 all other countries 272 224 198 total revenue $ 1,615 $ 1,556 $ 1,480 the company's property and equipment, net for the united states and all other countries based on the geographic location of the assets for the periods presented: december 31, 2018 2017 (in millions) property and equipment, net united states $ 214 $ 219 all other countries 39 44 total $ 253 $ 263 note 19: interest income and other, net the following table presents the detail of interest income and other, net, for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) net gain (loss), realized and unrealized, on foreign currency exchange and foreign currency derivative contracts and other, net $ (6 ) $ 2 $ (4 ) interest income 7 1 1 gain/(loss) on investment in privately-held companies 1 (2 ) total $ 2 $ 1 $ (3 ) 115 note 20: quarterly financial information (unaudited) the following table presents selected unaudited financial information for the eight quarters in the period ended december 31, 2018. the results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of future quarterly results and, accordingly, period to period comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. three months ended march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 (in millions, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2018 revenue $ 378 $ 433 $ 458 $ 346 operating income 23 49 89 23 net income 5 32 69 7 basic earnings per share (1) $ 0.04 $ 0.23 $ 0.50 $ 0.05 diluted earnings per share (1) $ 0.04 $ 0.23 $ 0.49 $ 0.05 year ended december 31, 2017 revenue $ 372 $ 424 $ 439 $ 321 operating income 27 46 42 9 net income (loss) (2) 13 27 25 (84 ) basic earnings (loss) per share (1) $ 0.09 $ 0.19 $ 0.18 $ (0.60 ) diluted earnings (loss) per share (1) $ 0.09 $ 0.19 $ 0.18 $ (0.60 ) (1) (2) earnings per share is computed independently for each of the quarters presented. therefore, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share may not equal the total computed for the year. during the fourth quarter of 2017, we recognized $67 million of transition tax and $6 million of tax expense recorded for the remeasurement of our net deferred tax assets related to the 2017 tax act enacted on december 22, 2017. refer to note 11: income taxes for further information. item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a . controls and procedures evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures as of december 31, 2018, our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act. based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer concluded that, as of december 31, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the exchange act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the securities and exchange commission's, or the sec's, rules and forms, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. changes in internal control over financial reporting there were no changes to our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended december 31, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 116 ma nagement's report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rule 13a-15(f) of the exchange act. internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. under the supervision and with the participation of the company's management, including the chief executive officer and president and the chief financial officer, the company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management evaluated the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018. pursuant to exchange act rule 13a-15(d) or 15d-15(d), management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2018, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. management has reviewed its assessment with the audit committee. kpmg llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, as stated in their report which is included below. limitations on effectiveness of controls and procedures management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. 117 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the stockholders and board of directors tripadvisor, inc.: opinion on internal control over financial reporting we have audited tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries' (the company ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) ( pcaob ), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2018, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements), and our report dated february 22, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. basis for opinion the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 118 because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the ri sk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. /s/ kpmg llp boston, massachusetts february 22, 2019 119 item 9b . other information not applicable. part iii item 10 . directors, executive officers and corporate governance the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2019 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2018. item 11 . executive compensation the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2019 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2018. item 12 . security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2019 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2018. item 13 . certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2019 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2018. item 14 . principal accounting fees and services the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2019 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2018. part iv item 15 . exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) the following is filed as part of this annual report on form 10-k: 1. consolidated financial statements : the consolidated financial statements and report of independent registered public accounting firms required by this item are included in part ii,risk factors 9 "risk factors." moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. we caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. we expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on form 10-q for future periods and current reports on form 8-k as we file them with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or the sec, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through current reports on form 8-k or otherwise. 1 pa rt i item 1. business overview tripadvisor, inc. ( tripadvisor , the company , we , or us ) is a leading online travel company and our mission is to help people around the world plan, book and experience the perfect trip. we operate a global travel platform that connects the world's largest audience of prospective travelers with travel partners through rich content, price comparison tools, and online reservation and related services for destinations, accommodations, travel activities and experiences, and restaurants. under our flagship brand, tripadvisor, we launched www.tripadvisor.com in the united states in 2000. since then, we have launched localized versions of the tripadvisor website in 48 markets and 28 languages worldwide. tripadvisor features 859 million reviews and opinions on 8.6 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do including 1.4 million hotels, inns, b bs and specialty lodging, 842,000 rental properties, 5.2 million restaurants and 1.2 million travel activities and experiences worldwide. tripadvisor's rich content and engaged community attract the world's largest travel audience, based on monthly unique visitors, including 463 million average monthly unique visitors in the third quarter of 2019 during the peak summer travel season. in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we own and operate a portfolio of travel media brands and businesses, operating under various websites, including the following: www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bokun.io, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.restorando.com , and www.bookatable.co.uk), www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.housetrip.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.singleplatform.com , www.smartertravel.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and www.viator.com. our industry and market opportunity we operate in the global travel industry, focusing exclusively on online travel and travel-related activity, and the online advertising market. according to phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, the annual global travel market represents $1.7 trillion in sales and is increasingly shifting online. as consumer online travel media consumption and online travel commerce activity increases, we believe travel and travel-related businesses will continue to allocate greater percentages of their marketing budgets to online channels in order to grow their businesses. we believe this creates a significant long-term growth opportunity for our business. our business model our businesses match demand, or consumers that seek to discover, research, price compare and book the best travel experiences online, with supply from travel partners around the world that provide travel accommodations and experiences. consumer offerings tripadvisor enables consumers to plan, book and experience the perfect trip by providing content, supply, price, and convenience. content and supply has enabled tripadvisor to become a well-known global brand, one that has attracted the world's largest travel audience, based on average monthly unique visitors , and influences a significant amount of travel commerce. we are focused on creating the best online experience in travel planning and booking, making it easier for consumers to research destinations and experiences, read and contribute user-generated content, compare destinations and businesses based on quality, price and availability, and complete bookings powered by our travel partners. 2 travel partners our portfolio of travel-related websites enables our travel partners to be discovered, to advertise and to sell their services to a global travel audience. travel partners may include hotel chains, independent hoteliers, online travel agencies, or otas, destination marketing organizations, and other travel-related and non-travel related product and service providers that seek to market and sell their products and services to a global audience. we enable media advertising opportunities and in some cases, facilitate transactions between consumers and travel partners in a number of ways, including by sending referrals to our travel partners' websites, facilitating bookings on behalf of our travel partners, or by serving as the merchant of record particularly in our experiences and rentals offerings and by offering advertising placements on our websites and mobile apps. segments and products we manage our business based on the following reportable segments: (1) hotels, media platform and (2) experiences dining. the hotels, media platform segment includes revenue generated from the following sources: tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue. our largest source of hotels, media platform segment revenue is generated from click-based advertising on tripadvisor-branded websites, which is primarily comprised of contextually-relevant booking links to our travel partners' websites. our click-based travel partners are predominantly otas and direct suppliers in the hotel category. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc , basis, with payments from travel partners determined by the number of travelers who click on a link multiplied by the cpc rate for each specific click. cpc rates are determined in a dynamic, competitive auction process, also known as our hotel metasearch auction, where our travel partner cpc bids for rates and availability to be listed on our site are submitted. we also offer subscription-based advertising to hotel partners, owners of b bs and other specialty lodging properties, enabling subscribers to advertise their businesses on our websites, as well as manage and promote their website url, email address, phone number, special offers and other information related to their business. subscription-based advertising services are predominantly sold for a flat fee for a contracted period of time of one year or less. we also offer travel partners the opportunity to advertise and promote their business through hotel sponsored placements on our websites. this service is generally priced on a cpc basis, with payments from travel partners determined by the number of travelers who click on the sponsored link multiplied by the cpc rate for each specific click. cpc rates for hotel sponsored placements that our travel partners pay are based on a pre-determined contractual rate. in addition, transaction revenue is generated from our hotel instant booking feature, which enables hotel shoppers to book directly with a travel partner, with the latter serving as the merchant of record for the transaction, without leaving our website . we earn a commission from our travel partners for each traveler that completes a hotel reservation on our website based on a pre-determined contractual commission rate. tripadvisor-branded display and platform revenue. we offer travel partners the ability to promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner through a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites. our display-based advertising clients are predominantly direct suppliers of hotels, air travel and cruises, as well as destination marketing organizations. other display advertising partners include otas and other travel-related businesses, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. the experiences dining segment includes revenue generated from the following sources: experiences. we provide information and services that allow consumers to research and book activities and attractions in popular travel destinations both through viator, our dedicated experiences offering, and on our tripadvisor website and mobile apps. we also power travel activities and experiences booking capabilities to consumers on affiliate partner websites, including some of the world's top airlines, hotel chains, and online and offline travel agencies. we work with local tour or travel 3 activities/experiences operators ( the supplier ) to provide consumers the ability to book tours, activities and experiences ( the activity ) in popular destinations worldwide. we generate commissions for each booking transaction we facilitate through our online reservation system. to a lesser extent, we earn commissions from affiliate partners, or third-party merchant partners who display and promote on their websites the supplier activities available on our platform to generate bookings. dining. we provide information and services for consumers to research and book restaurants in popular travel destinations through our dedicated restaurant reservations offering, thefork, and on our tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. thefork is an online restaurant booking platform operating on a number of websites (including www.thefork.com, www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.restorando.com and www.bookatable.co.uk), with a network of restaurant partners located primarily across the united kingdom (the u.k. ), europe, australia, and south america. we primarily generate transaction fees (or per seated diner fees) that are paid by restaurants for diners seated primarily from bookings through thefork's online reservation system. to a lesser extent, we also generate subscription fees for subscription-based advertising to restaurants, access to certain online reservation management services, marketing analytic tools, and menu syndication services provided by thefork and tripadvisor. in addition, we also offer restaurant partners the opportunity to advertise and promote their business through restaurant media advertising placements on our website. this service is generally priced on a cpc basis, with payments from restaurant partners determined by the number of users who click on the sponsored link multiplied by the cpc rate for each specific click. cpc rates for media advertising placements that our restaurant partners pay are based on a pre-determined contractual rate. other is a combination of our rentals, flights/cruises/car, smartertravel, and tripadvisor china business units and is not considered a reportable segment. other includes revenue generated from the following sources: our rentals offering provides i nformation and services that allow travelers to research and book vacation and short-term rental properties, including full homes, condominiums, villas, beach properties, cabins and cottages. rentals generates revenue primarily by offering individual property owners and managers the ability to list their properties on our websites and mobile apps thereby connecting with travelers through a free-to-list, commission-based option or, to a lesser extent, by an annual subscription-based fee structure . these properties are listed on www.flipkey.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com, www.niumba.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and on our tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. in addition, other also includes revenue generated from flights, cruise, and car offerings on tripadvisor, as well as revenue from non-tripadvisor-branded websites not otherwise described above, such as www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.onetime.com and www.smartertravel.com, and tripadvisor china, which primarily includes click-based advertising and display-based advertising revenue. for further information regarding our segments, including a change in reportable segments during 2019, financial information, and the principal revenue streams within these segments, refer to note 1: organization and business description and note 18: segment and geographic information in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 on this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality consumers' travel expenditures follow a seasonal pattern. correspondingly, travel partners' advertising investments and, therefore, our revenue and profits, also follow a seasonal pattern. our financial performance tends to be seasonally highest in the second and third quarters of a given year, which includes the seasonal peak in consumer demand, traveler hotel and rental stays, and travel activities and experiences taken, compared to the first and fourth quarters, which represent seasonal low points. significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends. our growth strategy phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, estimates the annual global travel market (not including dining) at $1.7 trillion of bookings and we believe that tripadvisor's influence in the travel 4 ecosystem remains significant. our growth strategy aims to increase revenue by deepening customer engagement on our platform by pursuing the following key strategies, including: continue building products that reduce friction throughout the travel planning and trip-taking journey and delight travelers deepen consumer engagement with our platform (including, but not limited to, membership growth, mobile app engagement and overall repeat usage) invest in technology to further improve our customer and supplier experiences deepen travel partner engagement with our platform by expanding the number of products and services we offer invest in and grow certain categories where we lead the broader travel market today and/or can leverage unique assets, such as hotel business to business ( b2b ) services, media advertising, experiences and restaurants leverage our technological and operational efficiencies and opportunistically pursue strategic acquisitions. marketing and competition we compete with other companies in attractive, rapidly evolving categories of the travel industry. in these areas, we compete for content, traffic, advertising dollars and, more generally, to attract and retain our users' attention, both in terms of reach and engagement. since our products and those of our competitors are typically free, we compete based on our brand, the quality and nature of our product offerings and our online travel search and price comparison services (or metasearch), rather than on price. as such, we invest heavily in constantly improving our user experience and expanding content, listings and bookable inventory. we also invest to amplify our global brand and raise consumer awareness of, and engagement with, our end-to-end product offerings. we leverage a number of online and offline marketing channels, including online search engines (primarily google), social media, email and brand advertising (primarily television advertising). the relative success of our marketing strategy is more measurable on some of these channels than others, and can be influenced by changes that we, our travel partners, or our competitors make to our respective products and marketing strategies. during 2019, our total advertising expense was approximately $423 million, primarily driven by investments in online search engines, and to a lesser extent, investments in offline marketing channels, which was primarily television advertising. we intend to continue to promote brand awareness through both online and offline advertising efforts. we compete globally with both online and offline, established and emerging, providers of travel, lodging, experiences and restaurant reservation and related services. the markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. we also compete with different types of companies in the various markets and geographies where we operate, including large and small companies in the travel space as well as broader service providers. more specifically: in our hotels, media platform segment, we compete, and in some cases partner, with the following businesses: o otas (including expedia group, inc., or expedia , booking holdings, inc., or booking , trip.com group limited (formerly known as ctrip.com international, ltd) and their respective subsidiaries and operating companies) o hotel metasearch providers (including google, trivago (a subsidiary of expedia), kayak and hotelscombined (subsidiaries of booking)) o large online search, social media, and marketplace platforms and companies (including google, facebook, microsoft's bing, yahoo, baidu, alibaba, and amazon) o traditional offline travel agencies and 5 o global hotel chains seeking to promote direct bookings . we also compete with offerings in our experiences dining segment. experiences competes with online travel agencies, such as airbnb, booking, getyourguide and klook traditional travel agencies online travel service providers and wholesalers, among others. dining competes with other online restaurant reservation services, such as seatme (owned by yelp) and opentable (a subsidiary of booking). commercial relationships we have a number of commercial relationships that are important to the success of our business. although these relationships are memorialized in agreements, many of these agreements are for limited terms or are terminable at will or on short notice. as a result, we seek to ensure the mutual success of these relationships. we have commercial relationships with a majority of the world's leading otas, as well as thousands of other travel partners, pursuant to which these companies primarily purchase traveler leads from us, generally on a click-based advertising basis. for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 our two most significant travel partners were expedia group, inc. and booking holdings, inc., which each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and together accounted for approximately 33%, 37% and 43% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. nearly all of this concentration of revenue is recorded in the tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue line within our hotels, media platform segment for these reporting periods. operations and technology we have assembled a team of highly skilled software engineers, computer scientists, data scientists, network engineers and systems engineers whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas, including a wide variety of open source operating systems, databases, languages, analytics, networking, scalable web architecture, operations and warehousing technologies. we make significant investments in product and feature development, data management, personalization technologies, scalable infrastructures, networking, data warehousing, and search engine technologies. our systems infrastructure for tripadvisor-branded websites is housed at two geographically separate facilities and hosted by amazon web services. our infrastructure installations have multiple communication links as well as continuous monitoring and engineering support. each facility is fully self-sufficient and operational with its own hardware, networking, software and content, and is structured in an active/passive, fully redundant configuration. substantially all of our software components, data, and content are replicated in multiple datacenters and development centers, as well as backed up at offsite locations. our systems are monitored and protected though multiple layers of security. several of our individual subsidiaries and businesses have their own data infrastructure and technology teams. intellectual property our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology and trade secrets, is an important component of our business. we rely on our intellectual property rights in our content, proprietary technology, software code, ratings indexes, databases of reviews and forum content. we have acquired some of our intellectual property rights through licenses and content agreements with third parties and these arrangements may place restrictions on the use of our intellectual property. we protect our intellectual property by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions, as well as on international, national, federal, state and common law rights. we protect our brands by pursuing the trademark registration of our core brands, as appropriate, maintaining our trademark portfolio, securing contractual trademark rights protection when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. we also register copyrights and domain names as deemed appropriate. additionally, we protect our trademarks, domain names and copyrights with the use of intellectual property licenses and an enforcement program. 6 we have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future inventions, as circumstances may warrant. however, many patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us . in connection with our copyrightable content, we post and institute procedures under the u.s. digital millennium copyright act and similar host privilege statutes worldwide to gain immunity from copyright liability for photographs, text and other content loaded on our sites by users. however, differences between statutes, limitations on immunity, and moderation efforts in the many jurisdictions in which we operate may affect our ability to claim immunity. from time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement by us of the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights of third parties. in addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. any such litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could materially harm our business. regulation we are subject to a number of laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet and relating to the travel industry, the vacation rental industry and the provision of travel services. as we continue to expand the reach of our brands into additional international markets, we are increasingly subject to additional laws and regulations. this includes laws and regulations regarding, among other matters, consumer privacy, libel, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, taxation, online payment services, competition and protection of minors. these laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. many of these laws and regulations are being tested in courts, and could be interpreted by regulators and courts in ways that could harm our business. in addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations is often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate. in addition, we provide advertising data and information and conduct marketing activities that are subject to consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices, domestically and internationally, including, in some countries, pricing display requirements, licensing and registration requirements and industry specific value-added tax regimes. the united states (as well as individual states), the european union (as well as member states) and other countries have adopted legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online editorial and user-generated content, data privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, and liability for third-party activities. it is difficult to accurately predict how such legislation will be interpreted and applied or whether new taxes or regulations will be imposed on our services, and whether or how we might be affected. increased regulation of the internet could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. we are subject to laws that require protection of user privacy and user data. as our business has evolved, we have begun to receive and store a greater volume of personally identifiable data. this data is increasingly subject to laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. for example, the european union, in may 2018, adopted the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which requires companies, including ours, to meet enhanced requirements regarding the handling of personal data. in addition, the state of california adopted the consumer privacy protection act which became effective january 1, 2020 and also enhances privacy rights and consumer protection for residents of california. in addition, imilar laws have been adopted or are currently under discussion in other jurisdictions. the enactment, interpretation and application of these laws is still in a state of flux. 7 also, on june 23, 2016, the u.k. passed a referendum to exit the european union, known as brexit , and the u.k. ceased to be a member of the eu on january 31, 2020 . the eu and u.k. will continue to work on the terms of the departure through a transition period ending december 31, 2020. since the final terms of the u.k. 's exit from the european union remain uncertain, we are unable to predict the effect brexit will have on our business and results of operations however, we will likely face new regulatory costs and challenges if the u.k. regulations diverge from those of the european union . corporate history, equity ownership and voting control tripadvisor was co-founded in february 2000 by stephen kaufer, our current chief executive officer and president. in april 2004, tripadvisor was acquired by iac/interactivecorp, or iac. in august 2005, iac spun-off its portfolio of travel brands, including tripadvisor, into expedia, at the time a separate newly-formed delaware corporation. on december 20, 2011 expedia completed a spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly-traded delaware corporation. we refer to this second spin-off transaction as the spin-off. following the spin-off, on december 21, 2011, tripadvisor began trading on the nasdaq global select market, or nasdaq, as an independent public company under the trading symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates. as a result, liberty beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip. simultaneously, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. we refer to this transaction as the liberty spin-off . as a result of the liberty spin-off, effective august 27, 2014, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100% of liberty's interest in tripadvisor. as a result of these transactions, as of december 31, 2019, ltrip beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock, which constitute 14.6% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 22.5% of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 57.9% of our voting power. employees as of december 31, 2019, we had 4,194 employees. of these employees, 45% were based in the united states. we believe we have good relationships with our employees, including relationships with employees represented by international works councils or other similar organizations. additional information we maintain a corporate website at ir.tripadvisor.com. except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the sec. on our investor relations website ( http://ir.tripadvisor.com/investor-relations ), we provide our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to these reports free of charge. these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish these reports to the sec or publish through press releases, public conference calls and certain webcasts. all documents filed electronically with the sec (including reports, proxy and information statements and other information) are also available at www.sec.gov. investors and others should be aware that we 8 use our investor relations website ( http://ir.tripadvisor.com/investor-relations ) to announce material financial information to our investors as well as communicate with the public about our company, our results of operations and other information. we post our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers, senior financial officers and directors, on our corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. we intend to disclose any waivers of the code of ethics for our executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, on our corporate website. ite m 1a. risk factors you should consider carefully the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report as they may impact our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations or financial condition. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. risks related to our business and industry if we are unable to continue to attract a significant amount of visitors to our websites and mobile apps, to cost-effectively convert these visitors into revenue-generating users and to continue to engage our users, our revenue, financial results and business could be harmed. our long-term success depends on our continued ability to attract a significant number of visitors to our platforms in a cost-effective manner, to convert those visitors into consumers and then to continue to engage those consumers throughout the travel planning, booking and trip-taking phases. our traffic and user engagement could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to, increased competition inability to provide quality content, inventory or supply to our consumers declines or inefficiencies in traffic acquisition reduced awareness of our brands and macroeconomic conditions. certain of our competitors have advertising campaigns expressly designed to drive traffic directly to their websites, and these campaigns may negatively impact traffic to our site. our traffic growth could decline over time and our success could become increasingly dependent on our ability to increase levels of user engagement on our platform. there can be no assurances that we will continue to provide content and products in a manner that meets rapidly changing demand. any failure to obtain and manage content and products in a cost-effective manner that will engage users, or any failure to provide content and products that are perceived as useful, reliable and trustworthy, could adversely affect user experiences and their repeat behavior, reduce traffic to our websites and negatively impact our business and financial performance. we rely on internet search engines and application marketplaces to drive traffic to our platform, certain providers of which offer products and services that compete directly with our products. if links to our websites and apps are not displayed prominently, traffic to our platform could decline and our business would be negatively affected. we rely heavily on internet search engines to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites, principally through sem (i.e., the purchase of travel-related keywords) as well as through seo (i.e., free, or organic, search). the number of consumers we attract from search engines to our platform is due in large part to how and where information from, and links to, our websites are displayed on search engine results pages, or serps. the display, including rankings, of search results can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not in our control and may change frequently. search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of the results of a user's search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. in addition, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our websites to place lower in search query results. if a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our websites or those of our travel partners, or if competitive dynamics impact the cost or effectiveness of seo or sem in a negative manner, 9 our business and financial performance would be adversely affected. furthermore, our failure to successfully manage our seo and sem strategies and/or other traffic acquisition strategies could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our websites, as well as increased costs to the extent we replace free traffic with paid traffic. in some instances, search and metasearch companies and application marketplaces may change their displays or rankings in order to promote their own competing products or services or the products or services of one or more of our competitors. for example, google, a significant source of traffic to our website accounting for a substantial portion of the visits to our websites, frequently promotes its own competing products in its web search results, which has negatively impacted placement of references to our company and our website on the serp. google's promotion of its own competing products, or similar actions by google in the future that have the effect of reducing our prominence or ranking on its search results, could have a substantial negative effect on our business and results of operations. we also rely on application marketplaces, or app stores such as apple's app store and google's play, to drive downloads of our applications. in the future, apple, google or other marketplace operators may make changes to their marketplaces that make access to our products more difficult. for example, google has entered various aspects of the online travel market, including by establishing a flight metasearch product and hotel metasearch product as well as reservation functionality. our applications may receive unfavorable treatment compared to the promotion and placement of competing applications, such as the order in which they appear within marketplaces. similarly, if problems arise in our relationships with providers of application marketplaces, traffic to our site and our user growth could be harmed. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from advertising and any significant reduction in spending by advertisers or redirections of advertising spend could harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of advertising, primarily through click-based advertising and, to a lesser extent, display-based and subscription-based advertising. we enter into advertising contracts with our advertising partners however, the agreement terms are generally limited to legal matters, with campaign details and economics governed by insertion orders, and most of these contracts can be terminated by our partners at will or on short notice. our ability to grow advertising revenue with our existing or new advertising partners is dependent in large part on our ability to generate revenue for them relative to other alternatives. advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in such advertising does not generate sales leads, customers, bookings, or revenue and profit on a cost-effective basis. our ability to provide value to our advertising partners depends on a number of factors, including effectiveness of online advertising, competitiveness of our products, traffic quality, perception of our platform, availability and accuracy of analytics and measurement solutions to demonstrate our value, and macroeconomic conditions, whether in the advertising industry generally, among specific types of marketers or within particular geographies. we cannot guarantee that our current advertisers will fulfill their obligations under existing contracts, continue to advertise beyond the terms of existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts with us. in addition, advertising revenue could be impacted by a number of other factors, including, but not limited to, the following: our inability to increase or maintain user engagement our inability to increase or maintain the quantity and quality of ads shown to consumers, including as a result of technical infrastructure constraints the development of technologies that can block the display of our ads or block our ad measurement tools, particularly for advertising displayed on tablets and/or on mobile platforms the effectiveness of our ad targeting or degree to which consumers opt out of certain types of ad targeting adverse government actions or legal developments relating to advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments and developments in litigation that limit our ability to deliver or target advertising and 10 the impact of macroeconomic conditions, whether in the advertising industry in general or among special types of marketers or within particular geographies . the occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, or cause marketers to stop advertising with us altogether, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and financial results. click-based advertising revenue accounts for the majority of our advertising revenue. our cpc pricing for click-based advertising depends, in part, on competition between advertisers. if our large advertisers become less competitive with each other, merge with each other or with our competitors, focus more on per-click profit than on traffic volume, or are able to reduce cpcs, this could have an adverse impact on our click-based advertising revenue which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a relatively small number of significant advertising partners and any reduction in spending by or loss of these partners could seriously harm our business. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of advertising partners and rely significantly on our relationships. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2019, our two most significant advertising partners, expedia and booking (and their subsidiaries), accounted for a combined 33% of total revenue. while we enter into master advertising contracts with our partners, as discussed above, most of these contracts can be terminated by our partners at will or on short notice. if any of our significant advertisers were to cease or significantly curtail advertising on our websites, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenue over a relatively short period of time which would have a material impact on our business. our business depends on a strong brand and any failure to maintain, protect and enhance our brand could hurt our ability to retain and expand our base of consumers and partners, as well as increase the frequency with which consumers utilize our products and services. we believe that the strength of our brands (particularly the tripadvisor brand) has contributed significantly to our success. we also believe that maintaining, protecting and enhancing our brands is critical to expanding our base of consumers, increasing the frequency with which consumers utilize our solutions and attracting advertisers and business partners. our ability to maintain and protect our brand depends, in part, on our ability to maintain consumer trust in our products and in the quality, integrity, reliability of usefulness of the content and other information found on our platform. for example, if consumers do not view our reviews to be useful and reliable, they may seek other sources to obtain the information they are looking for and may not return to our platform as often in the future, or at all. this would negatively impact our ability to attract and retain consumers and partners and the frequency with which they use our platform. we dedicate significant resources to these goals, primarily through our computer algorithms and teams of moderators that are focused on identifying inappropriate, unreliable or deceptive content. we remove those types of content from our website and, in certain cases, take legal action against individuals or businesses that we believe have engaged in deceptive practices. media, legislative, or regulatory scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, content, advertising, and other issues may adversely affect our reputation and brands. negative publicity about our company, including our content, technology, business practices or strategic plans, could diminish our reputation and confidence in our brand, thereby negatively affecting the use of our products and potentially even our share price. for example, certain media outlets have alleged that we have improperly filtered or screened reviews, that we have not properly verified reviews, or that we manipulate reviews, ranking and ratings in favor of our advertisers against non-advertisers. we expend significant resources to ensure the integrity of our reviews and to ensure that the most relevant reviews are available to our consumers we do not establish rankings and ratings in favor of our advertisers. nevertheless, our reputation and brand, the traffic to our platform, our business and potentially even our share price may suffer from negative publicity about our company or if consumers otherwise perceive that our content is manipulated or biased. in addition, regulatory inquiries or investigations require management time and attention and could result in further negative publicity, regardless of their merits or ultimate outcomes. 11 in addition, unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our practices relating to privacy and data protection, product changes, competitive pressures, litigation or regulatory activity could adversely affect our reputation with our consumers and our partners. such negative publicity also could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement, and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue. we continue to invest significant time and effort towards educating users about our brand and our product offerings and there can be no assurances that these efforts will continue to be successful. in an effort to enhance our brand we invest significantly in brand marketing including, but not limited to, television advertising. we expect these investments to continue, and potentially even increase, as a result of a variety of factors, including relatively high levels of advertising spending by competitors, the increasing costs of supporting multiple brands, expansion into new geographies, product positioning where our brands are less well known, and the continued emergence and relative traffic share growth of search engines as destination sites for travelers. we expect to continue our television advertising campaign and to adjust our marketing efforts and spend among the different marketing channels, in each case as we think appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment in the different segments and businesses in which we operate. such efforts may not maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective or as efficient as they have been historically. if we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands or to generate demand in a cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. in addition, there are no assurances that these actions will have a positive impact on our marketing efficiencies or operating margins or when the financial benefit expected to result from these efforts will exceed the costs of such efforts. furthermore, some of our current and potential competitors have access to significantly greater and more diverse resources than we do, and they may also be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses to enable them to compete more effectively with us. consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates new challenges. if we are unable to operate effectively on these platforms or our products for such devices are not compelling, our business may be adversely affected. widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iphone, android-enabled smartphones and tablets such as the ipad, coupled with web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful apps available on these devices, is driving substantial online traffic and commerce to mobile platforms. we have experienced a significant shift of business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also experiencing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. we anticipate that the rate of use of these devices will continue to grow. the functionality and user experience associated with these alternative devices, such as a smaller screen size or lack of a screen, may make the use of our platform through such devices more difficult. our websites and apps, when utilized on mobile phone devices, monetize at a significantly lower rate than desktops and advertising opportunities are more limited on these mobile devices. additionally, consumer purchasing patterns differ on alternative devices. for example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. mobile consumers may also be unwilling to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing similar services or contribute high quality content through such devices. as a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps and brand recognition are likely to become increasingly important. we expect that the ways in which consumers engage with our platform will continue to change over time as consumers increasingly engage via alternative devices. it is increasingly important for us to develop and maintain effective platforms to drive adoption and user engagement by providing consumers with an appealing, easy-to-use experience. as new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our products and services to them and developing competitive new products and services - and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such products. if we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our offerings are not used by consumers, we could lose market share and our business, future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. 12 our success will also depend on the interoperability of our products with a range of technologies, systems, networks and standards or in creating, maintaining and developing relationships with key participants in related industries, some of which may be our competitors. for example, google's android and apple's iphone are the leading smartphones in the world t herefore, our products need to synergistically function on their respective operating systems in order to create a positive user experience on a mobile device. however, google could leverage its android operating system to give its travel services a competitive advantage, either technically or with prominence on its google play app store or within its mobile search results. similarly, apple obtained a patent for itravel, a mobile app that would allow a traveler to check in for a travel reservation. in addition, apple's iphone operating system includes wallet, a virtual wallet app that holds tickets, boarding passes, coupons and gift cards, and, along with itravel, may be indicative of apple's intent to enter the travel reservations business in some capacity. apple has substantial market share in the smartphone category and controls integration of offerings, including travel services, into its mobile operating system. apple also has more experience producing and developing mobile apps and has access to greater resources than we do. apple may use or expand itravel, wallet, siri (apple's voice recognition concierge service), apple pay (apple's mobile payment system) or another mobile app or functionality as a means of entering the travel reservations marketplace. to the extent google or apple use their mobile operating systems, app distribution channels or, in the case of google, search services, to favor their own travel service offerings, there may be an adverse effect on our ability to compete in the mobile space. we may not be successful in developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks and standards or in creating, maintaining and developing relationships with key participants in related industries. if we experience difficulties or increased costs in integrating our products into alternative devices, or if manufacturers elect not to include our products in their devices, make changes that degrade the functionality of our products, give preferential treatment to competitive products or prevent us from delivering advertising, our user growth and results of operations may be harmed. this risk may be exacerbated by the frequency with which consumers change or upgrade their devices. in the event consumers choose devices that do not already include or support our platform or do not install our products when they change or upgrade their devices, our traffic and user engagement may be harmed. in addition, the market for advertising products on mobile and other devices is rapidly evolving. as new devices and platforms are released, consumers may begin consuming content in a manner that is more difficult to monetize. similarly, as advertising products for mobile and other platforms develop, demand may increase for products that we do not offer or that may alienate our user base, which we must balance against our commitment to prioritizing the quality of user experience over short-term monetization. if we are not able to balance these competing considerations successfully to develop compelling advertising products, advertisers may stop or reduce their advertising with us and we may not be able to generate meaningful revenue from alternative devices despite the expected growth in their usage. declines or disruptions in the economy in general and travel industry, in particular, could adversely affect our businesses and financial performance. our businesses and financial performance are affected by the health of the global economy generally as well as the travel industry and leisure travel in particular. sales of travel services tend to decline or grow more slowly during economic downturns and recessions when consumers engage in less discretionary spending, are concerned about unemployment or economic weakness, have reduced access to credit or experience other concerns that reduce their ability or willingness to travel. the global economy may be adversely impacted by unforeseen events beyond our control including incidents of actual or threatened terrorism, regional hostilities or instability, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters, political instability and health concerns (including epidemics or pandemics), defaults on government debt, significant increases in fuel and energy costs, tax increases and other matters that could reduce discretionary spending, tightening of credit markets and declines in consumer confidence. decreased travel spending could reduce the demand for our services and have a negative impact on our business and financial performance. in addition, the uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and our results of operations. 13 for example, since the u.k. initiated the process to exit the european union, known as brexit, global markets and foreign exchange rates have experienced increased volatility, including a decline in the value of the british pound as compared to the u.s. dollar. we have significant operations in both the u.k. and the european union. our operations and those of our merchants are highly integrated across the u.k. and the european union and are highly dependent on the free flow of labor and goods in those regions. although the u.k. ceased to be a member of the e.u. on january 31, 2020, the u.k. and e.u. will continue to work on the terms of the departure through a transition period ending december 31, 2020. as a result, t here remains significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the u.k. and the e.u. the ongoing uncertainty and potential outcomes could negatively impact our merchant and customer relationships and financial performance. in addition, uncertainty could continue to adversely affect consumer confidence and spending in the u.k. we could face new regulatory costs and challenges when the final terms of the governing relationships and final u.k. regulations are determined. since the final terms of that exit and the u.k. regulatory environment are uncertain, we are unable to predict the effect brexit will have on our business and results of operations . as another example, our financial results may be negatively impacted by the 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak. the extent and duration of such impacts remain largely uncertain and dependent on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of the coronavirus, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions taken and the impact of these and other factors on travel behavior. we operate in an increasingly competitive global environment and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. we compete in a rapidly evolving and competitive industry. we face competition for content, consumers, advertisers, online travel search and price comparison services, or what is known in the industry as metasearch, and online reservations. we compete globally with both online and offline, established and emerging, providers of travel, lodging, experiences and restaurant reservation and related services. the markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. we also compete with different types of companies in the various markets and geographies where we operate, including large and small companies in the travel space as well as broader service providers. more specifically: in our hotels, media platform segment, we face competition from, and in some cases partner with, the following businesses: otas (including expedia and booking and many of their respective subsidiaries and operating companies) hotel metasearch providers (including trivago, kayak and hotelscombined, subsidiaries of booking, and trip.com group limited, formerly known as ctrip.com international, ltd) large online search, social media, and marketplace platforms and companies (including google, facebook, microsoft's bing, yahoo, baidu, alibaba, and amazon) and traditional offline travel agencies and global hotel chains seeking to promote direct bookings. we also face competition from different companies in each of the offerings in our experiences dining segment. experiences competes with online travel agencies, such as airbnb, booking, getyourguide and klook traditional travel agencies online travel service providers and wholesalers, among others. dining competes with other online restaurant reservation services, such as seatme (owned by yelp) and opentable (a subsidiary of booking). there has been a proliferation of new channels through which providers can offer accommodations, experiences and restaurant reservations. metasearch services may lower the cost for new companies to enter the market by providing a distribution channel without the cost of promoting the new entrant's brand to drive consumers directly to its website. some of our competitors and potential competitors offer a variety of online services, many of which are used by competitors more frequently than online travel services. in addition, in some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction, or offer travel services at a loss, in order to gain market share. many of our competitors (such as google, booking and trip.com group limited) have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us and have more expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating internet traffic as well as large client bases. they also have the ability to leverage other aspects of their business to enable them to compete more effectively against us. for example, google has entered various aspects of the online travel market, including by establishing a flight metasearch product ("google flights") 14 and a hotel metasearch product ("google hotel ads") that are growing rapidly, as well as its "book on google" reservation functionality and its google trips app . in addition, google and other large, established companies with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating internet traffic have launched travel or travel-related search, metasearch and/or reservation booking services and may create additional inroads into online travel. google's travel metasearch services, google hotel ads and google flights, are growing rapidly and have achieved significant market share in a relatively short time. in addition, many of our competitors, including online search companies, continue to expand their voice and artificial intelligence capabilities, which may provide them with a competitive advantage in travel. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current, emerging and future competitors or on platforms that may emerge, or provide differentiated products and services to our traveler base. we compete with certain companies that we also do business with, including some of our click-based advertising travel partners. the consolidation of our competitors and travel partners, including expedia (through its acquisitions of orbitz, travelocity, and homeaway) and booking (through its acquisitions of kayak and opentable), may affect our relative competitiveness and our travel partner relationships. competition and consolidation could result in higher traffic acquisition costs, reduced margins on our advertising services, loss of market share, reduced customer traffic to our websites and reduced advertising by travel companies on our websites. as the industry shifts towards online travel services and the technology supporting it continues to evolve, including platforms such as mobile phone and tablet computing devices, competition is likely to intensify. competition in our industry may result in pricing pressure, loss of market share or decreased user engagement, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we rely on information technology to operate our business and remain competitive, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our businesses. we depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems for website and mobile apps, supplier connectivity, communications, reservations, payment processing, procurement, customer service and fraud prevention. our future success depends on our ability to continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while at the same time maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. we may not be able to maintain or replace our existing systems or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. we may not be successful, or as successful as our competitors, in developing technologies and systems that operate effectively across multiple devices and platforms in a way that is appealing to our consumers. in addition, the emergence of alternative devices, such as mobile phones and tablets, and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms, will require additional investment in technology. new developments in other areas could also make it easier for competitors to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. technology changes, including new devices, services and home assistants, such as amazon's alexa voice and google home, and developing technologies, such as machine learning and artificial intelligence, could negatively impact our business. if we do not continue to innovate and provide products, services and features that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our business and financial performance could suffer. our success depends in part on continued innovation to provide products, features and services that make our platform compelling to users and engage our consumers. our competitors are continually developing innovations in online travel-related services and features. as a result, we are continually working to improve our business model and consumer experience in order to engage our consumers and drive user traffic and conversion rates. we have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant resources in developing and marketing these innovations. we can give no assurances that the changes we make will yield the benefits we expect and will not have unintended or adverse impacts that we did not anticipate. if we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services 15 and quality features that users want to use, existing consumers may become dissatisfied and use competitors' offerings and we may be unable to attract additional consumers, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our dedication to making the user experience our highest priority may cause us to prioritize rapid innovation and user experience over short-term financial results. we strive to create the best experience for our users, providing them with the information, products and tools to enable them to plan, book, and experience the perfect trip. we believe that in doing so we will increase our rates of conversion, our revenue and, ultimately, our financial performance over the long-term. we have taken actions in the past and may continue to make decisions in the future that have the effect of reducing our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions benefit the overall user experience. for example, we may introduce new products or changes to existing products or the user experience that decrease rates of conversion but increases revenue. in addition, our approach of putting users first may negatively impact our relationship with existing or prospective partners. these actions and practices could result in a loss of partners, which in turn could harm our results of operations. the short-term reductions in revenue or profitability could be more severe than we anticipate or these decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with consumers and travel partners, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. in addition, if new or enhanced products fail to engage users or if we are unsuccessful in our effort to monetize these initiatives, we may fail to generate sufficient revenue, profit margin or other value to justify our investments, in which case our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. we are dependent upon the quality of traffic in our network to provide value to our partners, and any failure in our ability to deliver quality traffic and/or the metrics to demonstrate the value of the traffic could have a material adverse effect on the value of our websites to our partners and adversely affect our revenue. we use technology and processes to monitor the quality of the internet traffic that we deliver to our partners and have identified metrics to demonstrate the quality of that traffic. these metrics are used to not only identify the value of advertising on our website but also to identify low quality clicks such as non-human processes, including robots, spiders or other software the mechanical automation of clicking and other types of invalid clicks or click fraud. even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low-quality traffic, or traffic that online advertisers deem to be invalid, will be delivered to such online advertisers. as a result, we may be required to credit amounts owed to us by our partners. furthermore, low-quality or invalid traffic may be detrimental to our relationships with partners, and could adversely affect our advertising pricing and revenue. we rely on assumptions and estimates and data to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. we believe that certain metrics are key to our business. as both the industry in which we operate and our businesses continue to evolve, so too might the metrics by which we evaluate our businesses and the company. in addition, while the calculation of the metrics we use is based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates, our internal tools are not independently verified by a third party and have a number of limitations and, furthermore, our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time. for example, a single person may have multiple accounts or browse the internet on multiple browsers or devices, some consumers may restrict our ability to accurately identify them across visits, some mobile apps automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no user action, and we are not always able to capture user information on all of our platforms. as such, the calculations of our unique visitors may not accurately reflect the number of people actually visiting our platforms. we continue to improve upon our tools and methodologies to capture data and believe that our current metrics are accurate however, the improvement of our tools and methodologies could cause inconsistency between current data and previously reported data, which could confuse investors or lead to questions about the integrity of our data. also if the internal tools we use to track these metrics under-count or over-count performance or contain algorithm or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. finally, we may, in the future, identify new or other metrics that enable us to more accurately evaluate our business. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these metrics. 16 we rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. our future success is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. in particular, the contributions of stephen kaufer, our co-founder, chief executive officer and president, the contributions of key senior management and the contributions of software engineers and other technology professionals, are critical to our overall management and the success of our business. we cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of our existing key personnel and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. in addition, competition remains intense for well-qualified employees in certain aspects of our business, including software engineers, developers, product management and development personnel, and other technology professionals. our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. as a global company, we aim to attract quality employees from all over the world, so any restrictions on travel for professional or personal purposes may cause significant disruption to our businesses or negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees on a global basis. if we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining or motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. acquisitions, investments, significant commercial arrangements and/or new business strategies could disrupt our ongoing business and present new challenges and risks. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings in order to grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and travel partner demands and competitive pressures. as a result, we have acquired, invested in and/or entered into significant commercial arrangements with a number of new businesses in the past and our future growth may depend, in part, on future acquisitions, investments, commercial arrangements and/or changes in business strategies. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the following: expected and unexpected costs incurred in identifying and pursuing these endeavors, and performing due diligence on potential targets that may or may not be successful use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding these endeavors that may limit other potential uses of our cash, including product development, stock repurchases, and/or dividend payments amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences diversion of management's attention or other resources from our existing business difficulties and expenses in integrating the operations, products, technology, privacy protection systems, information systems or personnel of the company, including the assimilation of corporate cultures difficulties in implementing and retaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems the assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the acquired company, including costs associated with litigation, cybersecurity risks, and other claims relating to the acquired company failure of any company which we have acquired, in which we have invested, or with which we have a commercial arrangement, to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows or to retain key management or employees failure to generate adequate returns on acquisitions and investments with respect to minority investments, limited management or operational control and reputational risk, which risk is heightened if the controlling person in such case has business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours 17 entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience and increased complexity in our business impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from acquisitions and adverse market reaction to acquisitions. we have invested, and may in the future invest, in privately-held companies and these investments are currently accounted for using the measurement alternative for equity investments without a readily determinable fair value, which measure these investments at cost while subtracting any impairments, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. such investments are inherently risky in that such companies are typically at an early stage of development, may have no or limited revenues, may not be or may never become profitable, may not be able to secure additional funding or their technologies, services or products may not be successfully developed or introduced into the market. further, our ability to liquidate any such investments is typically dependent upon some liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition, since no public market exists for such securities. valuations of such privately-held companies are inherently complex and uncertain due to the lack of liquid market for the company's securities. moreover, we could lose the full amount of any of our investments and any impairment of our investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that these investments will be successful or that such endeavors will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible or that we will achieve these benefits within a reasonable period of time. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand, results of operations and business could be harmed. over the years, we have experienced rapid growth in some areas of our business, including through acquisitions of other businesses and in new international markets. we continue to make substantial investments in our technology, product and sales, and marketing organizations. this growth places substantial demands on management and our operational infrastructure. in addition, as our business matures, we make periodic changes and adjustments to our organization in response to various internal and external considerations, including market opportunities, the competitive landscape, new and enhanced products and acquisitions. these changes may result in a temporary lack of focus or productivity or otherwise impact our business. to manage our growth, we may need to improve our operational, financial and management systems and processes which may require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources. as we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, including employees in international markets, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. if we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and business. risks related to legal and regulatory matters we are a global company that operates in many different jurisdictions and these operations expose us to additional risks, which risks increase as our business continues to expand. we operate in a number of jurisdictions both inside and outside of the united states and continue to expand our operations both domestically and internationally. many regions have different economic conditions, languages, currencies, consumer expectations, legislation, regulatory environments (including labor laws and customs), tax laws, levels of consumer acceptance and use of the internet for commerce and levels of political stability. we are subject to associated risks typical of global businesses, including, but not limited to, the following: compliance with additional laws and regulations (including the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, the eu general data protection regulation (or gdpr) and the california consumer 18 privacy act (or ccpa)), data privacy requirements, labor and employment law, laws regarding advertisements and promotions and anti-competition regulations diminished ability to legally enforce contractual rights increased risk and limits on enforceability of intellectual property rights restrictions on repatriation of cash as well as restrictions on investments in operations in certain countries financial risk arising from transactions in multiple currencies as well as foreign currency exchange restrictions difficulties in managing staff and operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences uncertainty regarding liability for services, content and intellectual property rights, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of precedent economic or political instability or laws and regulations involving economic or trade prohibitions or sanctions and threatened or actual acts of terrorism. our strategy includes continued expansion in existing international and new international markets. many of these markets have different economic conditions, customers, languages, currencies, consumer expectations, levels of consumer acceptance and use of the internet for commerce, legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political stability, and we are subject to associated risks typical of international businesses. international markets have strong local competitors with established brands and travel service providers or relationships that may make expansion in certain markets difficult and costly and take more time than anticipated. in addition, compliance with legal, regulatory or tax requirements in multiple jurisdictions places demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. in some markets, legal and other regulatory requirements may prohibit or limit participation by foreign businesses, such as by making foreign ownership or management of internet or travel-related businesses illegal or difficult or may make direct participation in those markets uneconomic, which could make our entry or expansion in those markets difficult or impossible, require that we work with a local partner or result in higher operating costs. if we are unsuccessful in expanding in new and existing markets and effectively managing that expansion, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the recently enacted u.s. tax legislation, tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 tax act ). foreign governments may enact tax laws that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. the 2017 tax act resulted in significant changes to the u.s. corporate income tax system. the 2017 tax act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in u.s. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the 2017 tax act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. the u.s. treasury department, the irs and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 tax act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. we are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. we are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, government investigations and other proceedings involving, among other matters, patent and intellectual property rights (including alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights), tax matters (including value-added, excise, transient, occupancy and accommodation taxes), regulatory compliance (including competition and consumer protection matters), defamation and free speech (including intermediary liability and platform immunity challenges), labor and employment matters and commercial disputes. 19 such claims, lawsuits, government investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, injunctions or damage awards and other factors. determining reserves for our pending litigation or other legal proceedings is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial damages, fines or penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. these proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, the release of confidential information or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or other field action, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a failure to comply with current laws, rules and regulations or changes to such laws, rules and regulations and other legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business or financial performance. our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business, including those relating to internet and online commerce, internet advertising, consumer protection, intermediary liability, data security and privacy, travel and rental licensing and listing requirements and tax. in some cases, these laws continue to evolve. for example, there is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to internet and online commerce that may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, data security, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of products and services. in addition, the growth and development of online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws and more aggressive enforcement efforts, which may impose additional burdens on online businesses generally. also, evolving case law and new legislation involving worker classification, including a new law in california, increase the potential for litigation and government audits in this area and may have ramifications as to how we operate certain segments of our business and our engagement with independent contractors. further, our rentals business has been and continues to be subject to regulatory developments globally that affect the rental industry and the ability of companies like us to list those rentals online. for example, some states and local jurisdictions, both domestically and internationally, have adopted, or are considering adopting, statutes or ordinances that prohibit property owners and managers from renting certain properties on a short-term basis or otherwise limit their ability to do so, and other states and local jurisdictions may introduce similar regulations. some states and local jurisdictions also have fair housing or other laws governing whether and how properties may be rented, which they assert apply to vacation rentals. in addition, many homeowners, condominium and neighborhood associations have adopted or are considering adopting rules that prohibit or restrict property owners and managers from short-term rentals. operating in this dynamic regulatory environment requires significant management attention and financial resources. we cannot assure that our efforts will be successful, and the investment and additional resources required to manage growth will produce the desired levels of revenue or profitability. we also have been subject, and we will likely be subject in the future, to inquiries from time to time from regulatory bodies concerning compliance with consumer protection, competition, tax, data privacy and travel industry-specific laws and regulations. the failure of our businesses to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and/or proceedings against us by governmental agencies, regulatory authorities, courts and/or consumers, which if material, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, if such laws and regulations are not enforced equally against other competitors in a particular market, our compliance with such laws may put us at a competitive disadvantage vis- -vis competitors who do not comply with such requirements. the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations, or the new interpretation of existing laws, rules and regulations, in each case that restrict or otherwise unfavorably impact the ability or manner in which we provide 20 services could require us to change certain aspects of our business, operations and commercial relationships to ensure compliance, which could decrease demand for services, reduce revenues, increase costs and/or subject the company to additional liabilities. for example, in 2018, the european union adopted gdpr implementing enhanced data protection requirements and, in 2019, the state of california adopted the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ) implementing privacy rights and consumer protections for california residents. other jurisdictions have adopted or are contemplating similar legislation. this legislation will continue to change the landscape for the use and protection of data and could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. unfavorable changes could decrease demand for products and services, limit marketing methods and capabilities, impede development of new products, result in negative publicity, require significant management time, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. violations of these laws and regulations could result in penalties and/or criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees and/or restrictions on the conduct of parts of our business in certain jurisdictions . likewise, the sec, department of justice ( doj ) and office of foreign assets controls ( ofac ), as well as foreign regulatory authorities, have continued to increase the enforcement of economic sanctions and trade regulations, anti-money laundering, and anti-corruption laws, across industries. u.s. economic sanctions relate to transactions with designated foreign countries, including cuba, iran, north korea, syria and nationals and others of those countries, ukraine/russia related sanctions, as well as certain specifically targeted individuals and entities. we believe that our activities comply with ofac, european union, u.k. and other regulatory authorities' economic sanction and trade regulations, as well as anti-money laundering and anti-corruption regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), the uk bribery act and the u.k. criminal finances act. as regulations continue to evolve and regulatory oversight continues to increase, we cannot guarantee that our programs and policies will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. in the event our controls should fail or are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal monetary penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation and the value of our brands. we cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected from copying or use by others, including potential competitors. our websites rely on content, brands and technology, much of which is proprietary. we protect our proprietary content, brands and technology by relying on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents and confidentiality agreements. any misappropriation or violation of our rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. even with these precautions, it may be possible for another party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, content or brands without authorization or to develop similar technology, content or brands independently. effective intellectual property protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and expenses and the costs of defending our rights. in addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our services are made available, and policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our business or ability to compete. we cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. furthermore, we may need to go to court or other tribunals or administrative bodies in order to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. these proceedings might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. our failure to protect our intellectual property in a cost-effective or effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to protect our technology, content and brands. we currently license from third parties and incorporate the technologies and content into our websites. as we continue to introduce new services that incorporate new technologies and content, we may be required to license additional technology, or content. we cannot be sure that such technology or content will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 21 risks related to data security and privacy our processing, storage and use of personal information and other data subjects us to additional laws and regulations and failure to comply with those laws and regulations could give rise to liabilities. we collect, process, store and transmit data, including personal information, for our consumers and our workforce. as a result, we are subject to a variety of laws in the united states and abroad regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other existing laws. in addition, the security of data when engaging in electronic commerce is essential to maintaining consumer and travel service provider confidence in our services. the regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. the u.s. congress and federal agencies, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, are reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection and use of information concerning consumer behavior on the internet in the united states. various u.s. courts are also considering the applicability of existing federal and state statutes, including computer trespass and wiretapping laws, to the collection and exchange of information online. in addition, we are subject to legislation intended to enhance the privacy and security of personal data, including credit card information (such as gdpr, the ccpa and other country specific data protection laws). there are a number of proposals for data privacy laws pending or proposed in other jurisdictions, including at both the state and federal levels of the united states as well as internationally. implementing and complying with these laws and regulations may be more costly or take longer than we anticipate, or could otherwise affect our business operations. we strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, privacy-related obligations to consumers or other third parties, or privacy-related legal obligations, may result in governmental enforcement actions, including, for example, fines and/or penalties, compliance orders, litigation or public statements that could harm our reputation and cause our users and travel partners to lose trust in us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, brand, market share and results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with processing credit card and other payment transactions and failure to manage those risks may subject us to fines, penalties and additional costs and could have a negative impact on our business. we accept payments from consumers and travel partners using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, direct debit from a customer's bank account, and invoicing. for existing and future payment options we offer to our customers, we may become subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations to implement enhanced authentication processes). these regulations and/or requirements could result in significant costs and reduce the ease of use of our payment products and yet may still be susceptible to fraudulent activity. in addition, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our websites as well as other payment disputes with our customers. for certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. we rely on third parties to provide certain payment methods and payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards and debit cards. in each case, our business could be disrupted if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. we are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card issuing banks' costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and/or lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments. we are also subject to a number of other laws and regulations relating to payments, money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security, and electronic fund transfers. if we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, or forced to cease providing certain services. 22 system security issues, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and system outage issues could disrupt our operations or services provided to our consumers, and any such disruption could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial results and stock price. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and service our consumers and travel partners is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems, workforce and those of third parties we utilize in our operations. significant security issues, data breaches, cyberattacks and outages, interruptions or delays, in our systems or third party systems upon which we rely, could impair our ability to display content or process transactions and significantly harm our business. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our consumers or our travel partners, could expose us, our consumers and travel partners to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business and financial performance and result in government enforcement actions and litigation and potential liability for us. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, consumers, or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our systems or data. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to investigate and address problems caused by cyber or other security problems. we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. failure to adequately protect against attacks or intrusions, whether for our own systems or systems of vendors, could expose us to security breaches that could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. the costs of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved stability and redundancy may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. in addition, to the extent that we do experience a data breach, remediation may be costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such costs. much of our business is conducted with third party partners and vendors, including, for example, marketing agencies and saas providers. a security breach at such third party could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity or damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. in addition, such incidents may also result in a decline in our active user base or engagement levels. finally, failure of such third parties to comply with applicable disclosure requirements could expose us to liability. we have acquired a number of companies over the years and may continue to do so in the future. as a result of these acquisitions, we may increase the volume of personal data that we collect, store, process and transmit. while we make significant efforts to address any information security issues and personal data protection issues with respect to our acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate the acquired businesses. media coverage of data breaches and consumer rights has escalated, in part because of the increased number of enforcement actions, investigations and lawsuits. security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage to reputation, exposure to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability due to regulatory penalties and sanctions. as this focus and attention on privacy and data protection increases, we also risk exposure to potential liabilities and costs resulting from the compliance with, or any failure to comply with, applicable legal requirements, conflicts among these legal requirements or differences in approaches to privacy and security. security breaches could also cause travelers and potential consumers to lose confidence in our data security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. evolving guidance on use of "cookies" and similar technology could negatively impact the way we do business. 23 a "cookie" is a text file that is stored on a user's web browser by a website. cookies are common tools used by thousands of websites, including ours, to, among other things, store or gather information (e.g., remember log-on details so a user does not have to re-enter them when revisiting a website), market to consumers, improve site security and enhance the user experience on a website. cookies and similar tracking technologies are valuable tools for websites and apps like ours to improve the customer experience and increase conversion on their websites. many countries have adopted data protection laws that introduce regulations governing the use of " cookies and other similar tracking technologies " by websites and app developers servicing consumers. to the extent any such regulations require "opt-in" or affirmative consent before certain cookies or trackers can be placed on a user's device or the ability of users to opt-out or control their preferences, our ability to serve certain customers in the manner we currently do, including with respect to retargeting or personalized advertising, might be adversely affected and our ability to continue to improve and optimize performance on our websites might be impaired, either of which could negatively affect a consumer's experience using our services and our business, market share and results of operations . risks related to the financial and tax matters we may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. we are currently party to a credit agreement with respect to a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility maturing in may 2022 (the 2015 credit facility ). this agreement includes restrictive covenants that may impact the way we manage our business and may limit our ability to secure significant additional financing in the future on favorable terms. our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. there can be no assurance that sufficient financing will be available or desirable, or even any, terms to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or extraordinary actions or that counterparties in any such financings would honor their contractual commitments. we have indebtedness which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. as of december 31, 2019, we had no outstanding long-term debt however, we continue to have existing credit facilities from which we can borrow significant amounts. as such, we are still subject to risks relating to our potential indebtedness that include: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes making it more difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate possibly placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms that we find acceptable and exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our outstanding debt is expected to be subject to variable rates of interest. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our 2015 credit facility allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations 24 however, there is no assurance that additional financing will be available to us on terms favorable to us, if at all. in addition, if new debt is added to the then existing debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. our 2015 credit facility provides for various provisions that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants and the failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. we are party to a credit agreement providing for our 2015 credit facility. the agreements that govern the 2015 credit facility contain various covenants, including those that limit our ability to, among other things: incur indebtedness pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock enter into certain asset sale transactions, including partial or full spin-off transactions enter into secured financing arrangements enter into sale and leaseback transactions and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to optimally operate our business. in addition, our 2015 credit facility requires that we meet certain financial tests, including a leverage ratio test. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facility may result in an event of default under the agreements governing such facility. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the debt incurred thereunder. in addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds (including periodic rollovers of existing borrowings). our financial results will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future. additionally, we have limited operating history with the current scale of our business, which means it is difficult to forecast our financial results. as a result, you should not rely upon our quarterly financial results as indicators of future performance. our financial results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to maintain and grow our user base and to increase user engagement increase in marketing, sales and other operation expenses that we will incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive fluctuations in the marketing spend of our travel partners due to seasonality, episodic global or regional events or other factors the pricing of our ads and other products user behavior or product changes that may reduce traffic to features or products that we successfully monetize system failure or outages, which would prevent us from serving ads for any period of time breaches of security or privacy and the costs associated with any such breaches and remediation fees paid to third parties for content or promotion of our products and services adverse litigation judgments, settlement or other litigation related costs changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to privacy and data protection, or engagement by government regulators, including final orders or consent decrees 25 the impact of changes in tax laws, which are recorded in the period enacted and may significantly affect our effective income tax rates and non-income taxes tax obligations that may arise from resolutions of tax examinations, including the examinations we are currently under that may materially differ from the amounts we have anticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and changes in global business and macroeconomic conditions. if we are unable to successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and our stock price and business may be adversely impacted. as a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. additionally, we are required to disclose in our annual reports on form 10-k our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a registered public accounting firm's attestation report on this assessment. if we are not successful in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, there could be inaccuracies or omissions in the consolidated financial information we are required to file with the sec. additionally, even if there are no inaccuracies or omissions, we could be required to publicly disclose the conclusion of our management that our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. these events could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, adversely impact our stock price, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits that could be costly to resolve and distract management's attention, limit our ability to access the capital markets or cause our stock to be delisted from nasdaq or any other securities exchange on which we are then listed. our effective income tax rate is impacted by a number of factors that could have a material impact on our financial results and could increase the volatility of those results. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. in the event we incur net income in certain jurisdictions but incur losses in other jurisdictions, we generally cannot offset the income from one jurisdiction with the loss from another. this lack of flexibility increases our effective income tax rate. furthermore, significant judgment is required to calculate our worldwide provision for income taxes and depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we believe our tax estimates are reasonable. however, we are routinely under audit by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. the taxing authorities of jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences, which would increase our effective income tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. as we operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions, the application of tax laws can also be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by taxing authorities of these jurisdictions. it is not uncommon for taxing authorities of different countries to have conflicting views, for instance, with respect to, among other things, the manner in which the arm's length standard is applied for transfer pricing purposes, or with respect to the valuation of intellectual property. for example, the oecd has recently recommended changes to numerous long-standing international tax principles. if countries amend their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the oecd guidelines, this may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. 26 the final determination of audits could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals and could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. also, our future effective income tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. if our effective income tax rates were to increase, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. the income tax effects of the accounting for share-based compensation may significantly impact our effective income tax rate. in periods in which our stock price is higher than the grant-date price of the share-based compensation awards vesting in that period, we will recognize excess tax benefits that will decrease our effective income tax rate. in periods in which our stock price is lower than the grant-date price of the share-based compensation awards vesting in that period, our effective income tax rate will increase. application of u.s. state and local or international tax laws, changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or the examination of our tax positions, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. as an international business, we are subject to income taxes and non-income-based taxes in the united states and various other international jurisdictions. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. however, due to economic and political conditions, tax rates and tax regimes in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change and the tax benefits that we intend to eventually derive could be undermined due to changing tax laws. governments are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues, which has contributed to an increase in audit activity, more aggressive positions taken by tax authorities and an increase in tax legislation. any such additional taxes or other assessments may be in excess of our current tax provisions or may require us to modify our business practices in order to reduce our exposure to additional taxes going forward, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the 2017 tax act has resulted in significant changes to the u.s. corporate income tax system. the tax law changes by the 2017 tax act are broad and complex and there are still uncertainties about how the 2017 tax act will be interpreted at both the u.s. federal and state levels. the u.s. treasury department, the irs and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 tax act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. this could materially change the taxes that we recorded since 2017, and the expected future impact of the 2017 tax act on our business. the oecd has been working on a base erosion and profit shifting project, and issued the action 1 report in 2015 to address the tax challenges arising from digitalization. since then, the oecd/g20 inclusive framework has issued various guidelines, policy notes, and proposals that if adopted could result in an overhaul of the international taxation system under which our current tax obligations are determined. as the oecd/g20 inclusive framework drives toward a consensus long-term solution, several countries have introduced unilateral digital service tax initiatives which impose new types of non-income taxes, including taxes based on a percentage of revenue. in july 2019, france signed into law a 3% digital services tax to be applied retroactively as of january 1, 2019. we recorded an estimate of $3 million for digital service tax to general and administrative expense on our consolidated statement of operations during the year ended december 31, 2019 however, we continue to assess the financial impact of this new law. the company is also monitoring other u.s. states and countries in which we do business, such as italy, spain, and the u.k., which have enacted or proposed similar taxes that will be applicable or are likely to be applicable during 2020. the company will continue to monitor developments and determine the financial impact worldwide of these initiatives. any changes to international tax laws, including new definitions of permanent establishment, could affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings and adversely impact our effective income tax rate. further, changes to tax laws and additional reporting requirements could increase the complexity, burden and cost of compliance. due to the large and expanding scale of our international business activities, any changes in u.s. or international taxation of our activities or the combined effect of tax laws in multiple jurisdictions may increase our worldwide effective income tax rate, increase the complexity and costs associated with tax compliance (especially if changes are 27 implemented or interpreted inconsistently across tax jurisdictions) and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. in addition, the taxing authorities in the united states and other jurisdictions where we do business regularly examine our income and other tax returns as well as the tax returns of expedia, our former parent. the ultimate outcome of these examinations (including the irs audit described below) cannot be predicted with certainty. should the irs or other taxing authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations, we may be required to record charges to our operations, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. changes in the tax treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce may adversely affect the commercial use of our sites and our financial results. due to the global nature of the internet, it is possible that various states or foreign countries might attempt to levy additional or new sales, income or other taxes relating to our activities. tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce. for example, congress is considering various approaches to legislation that would require companies engaged in e-commerce to collect sales tax on internet revenue and a growing number of u.s. states and certain foreign jurisdictions have adopted or are considering proposals to impose obligations on remote sellers and online marketplaces to collect taxes on their behalf. additionally, the u.s. supreme court's ruling in south dakota v. wayfair inc., in which a court reversed longstanding precedent that remote sellers are not required to collect state and local sales taxes, may have an adverse impact on our business. also, as described in more detail above, the european commission released two draft directives on the taxation of the digital economy and, on july 24, 2019, president macron signed into law the french digital services tax. new or revised international, federal, state or local tax regulations or court decisions may subject us or our customers to additional sales, occupancy, income and other taxes. we cannot predict the effect of these and other attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on e-commerce. new or revised taxes and, in particular, sales taxes, occupancy taxes, value added taxes ( vat ) and similar taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of selling products and services over the internet. new taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data and collect and remit taxes. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, occupancy, vat or similar taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our operating results. we do not collect and remit sales and use, occupancy, vat or similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable or legally required. several states and other taxing jurisdictions have presented or threatened us with assessments, alleging that we are required to collect and remit certain taxes there. while we do not believe that we are subject to such taxes and intend to vigorously defend our position in these cases, we cannot be sure of the outcome of our discussions and/or appeals with these states or cases that are pending in the courts. in the event of an adverse outcome, we could face assessments for additional time periods since the last assessments we received, plus any additional interest and penalties. we also expect additional jurisdictions may make similar assessments or pass similar new laws in the future, and any of the jurisdictions where we have sales may apply more rigorous enforcement efforts or take more aggressive positions in the future that could result in greater tax liability allegations. such tax assessments, penalties and interest or future requirements may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we continue to be subject to significant potential tax liabilities in connection with the spin-off. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia entered into in connection with the spin-off, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by 28 us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. we continue to be responsible for potential tax liabilities in connection with consolidated income tax returns filed with expedia prior to or in connection with the spin-off. by virtue of previously filed consolidated tax returns with expedia, we are currently under irs audit for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years. in connection with that audit, we received, in january 2017 and april 2019, notices of proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years, which would result in an increase in our worldwide income tax expense. the proposed adjustments would result in a reimbursement to expedia in an estimated range totaling $15 million to $20 million for those specific years related to the pre spin-off years after consideration of competent authority relief, exclusive of interest and penalties. the outcome of these matters or any other audits could subject us to significant tax liabilities. we are subject to fluctuation in foreign currency exchange risk. we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the united states but report our results in u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly those related to the euro, british pound, and australian dollar. these exposures include, but are not limited to, re-measurement of gains and losses from changes in the value of foreign denominated assets and liabilities translation gains and losses on foreign subsidiary financial results that are translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation and planning risk related to changes in exchange rates between the time we prepare our annual and quarterly forecasts and when actual results occur. for example, brexit caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. continued uncertainty regarding the final terms of brexit may result in future exchange rate volatility. in addition, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such as the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro or the british pound, could adversely affect our net revenue growth in future periods. depending on the size of the exposures and the relative movements of exchange rates, if we were to choose not to hedge or were to fail to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial statements and financial condition. as seen in some recent periods, in the event of severe volatility in exchange rates the impact of these exposures can increase, and the impact on results of operations can be more pronounced. in addition, the current environment and the increasingly global nature of our business have made hedging these exposures both more complex. we hedge certain short-term foreign currency exposures with the purchase of forward exchange contracts. these forward exchange contracts only help mitigate the impact of changes in foreign currency rates that occur during the term of the related contract period and carry risks of counter-party failure. there can be no assurance that our forward exchange contracts will have their intended effects. significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can affect consumer travel behavior. volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and its impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. risks related to ownership of our common stock liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. currently is a controlling stockholder. liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip, effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of our stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of our common stock of 25% of the members of our board of directors and matters as to which delaware law requires separate class votes), including but not limited to, corporate transactions such as mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets, the authorization or issuance of new equity or debt securities and determinations with respect to our business direction and policies. our chairman, gregory maffei, and one of our directors, albert rosenthaler, 29 also serve as officers and directors of ltrip. ltrip may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders and they may vote in a way with which our other stockholders may not agree or that may be adverse to other stockholders' interests. ltrip is not restricted from investing in other businesses involving or related to our business. ltrip's control of us, as well as the existing provisions of our organizational documents and delaware law, may discourage or prevent a change of control that might otherwise be beneficial, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. the market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may face negative pressure. our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility. the market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this section and other factors beyond our control. factors affecting the trading price of our common stock could include: quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts failure to meet market expectations the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program which could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock developments in our industry, including changes in governmental regulations and general market conditions and other factors, including factors related to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or foreign currency exchange fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. we are currently relying on the controlled company exemption under nasdaq stock market listing rules, pursuant to which controlled companies are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements otherwise applicable under nasdaq listing rules. the nasdaq stock market listing rules exempt controlled companies, or companies of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company, from certain corporate governance requirements, including those requirements that: a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors and director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we currently rely on the controlled company exemption for certain of the above requirements. accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other nasdaq-listed companies with respect to corporate governance for so long as we rely on these exemptions from the corporate governance requirements. 30 we do not pay regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock. although the company's board of directors declared, on november 1, 2019, a special cash dividend of $3.50 per share, or approximately $488 million in the aggregate, we do not pay regular quarterly or annual cash dividends. any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, investors should not rely on regular quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock and investors should not rely on special dividends with any regularity or at all. investors should rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize future gains on their investments. future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, particularly sales by our directors, officers, employees and significant stockholders, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impact our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. in addition, certain stockholders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. if ltrip or some other stockholder sells substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if there is a perception in the public market that ltrip might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. a decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. these provisions include: authorization and issuance of class b common stock that entitles holders to ten votes per share authorization of the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock prohibiting our stockholders from filling board vacancies or calling special stockholder meetings and limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders. we are subject to the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. these and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in stock prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to market risks primarily due to our international operations, and our ongoing investment and financial activities. the risk of loss can be assessed from the perspective of adverse changes in our future earnings, cash flows, fair values, and financial condition. our exposure to market risk generally includes our credit facilities, derivative instruments, cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables/payables, accounts payable, deferred merchant payables and other transactions denominated in foreign currencies. we have established policies, procedures and internal processes governing our management of market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage and attempt to mitigate our exposure to such risks. interest rates our primary exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and borrowings, if any, under our existing credit facilities. changes in interest rates affect the amount of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and the fair value of those securities. our interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in u.s. interest rates. we generally invest our excess cash in cash deposits at major global banks, money market funds, and marketable securities. our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. our investment policy requires our investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of our current investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. based on our investment positions as of december 31, 2018, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities 57 would not have result ed in a material decline in the fair value of the portfolio. in addition, such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. as of december 31, 2019, we had no outstanding cash equivalents or marketable securities in our investment portfolio, and no outstanding borrowings under our existing credit facilities. refer to note 7: financial instruments and fair value measurements and note 1 0 : debt in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 on this annual report on form 10-k for further information on our investment portfolio, other financial instruments and our existing credit facilities. we currently do not hedge our interest rate risk however, we are continually evaluating the interest rate market, and if we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. we did not experience material changes in interest rate exposures or any material financial impact from adverse changes in interest rates for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017. foreign currency exchange rates we conduct business in certain international markets, largely in the europe, including the u.k., and also in countries such as singapore and australia. because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign currency exchange rates. some of our subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their respective local currencies other than the u.s. dollar. consequently, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact the translation of those subsidiary's financial statements into u.s. dollars. as a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results of our non-u.s. dollar operations are translated from local currency, or functional currency, into u.s. dollars upon consolidation. if the u.s. dollar weakens against the functional currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income upon consolidation. similarly, our net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income will decrease upon consolidation if the u.s. dollar strengthens against the functional currency. the effect of foreign currency exchange on our business historically has varied from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so, potentially materially. in order to provide a meaningful assessment of the foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our consolidated financial statements, we performed a sensitivity analysis. a hypothetical 10% decrease of the foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, or strengthening of the u.s. dollar, would generate an unrealized loss of approximately $38 million related to a decrease in our net assets as of december 31, 2019, which would initially be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on our consolidated balance sheet. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in transactional gains and losses. we recognize these transactional gains and losses (primarily euro currency transactions) in our consolidated statements of operations and have recorded foreign currency exchange losses of $3 million and $6 million for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and a gain of $1 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, in other income (expense), net on our consolidated statements of operations. future transactional gains and losses are inherently difficult to predict as they are reliant on how the multiple currencies in which we transact fluctuate in relation to the u.s. dollar and other functional currencies, and the relative composition and denomination of monetary assets and liabilities each period. we currently manage our exposure to foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures. to the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies, as well as, using derivative financial instruments. we use foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage certain short-term foreign currency risk to try and reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. our objective is to hedge only those foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified and that may result in significant impacts to our cash or the consolidated statement of operations. our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures. 58 our foreign currency forward exchange contracts, to date, have principally addressed foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk between the euro and the u.s. dollar. we have accounted for our derivative instruments to date, which have not been designated as hedges under gaap, as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. we had one outstanding forward currency contract as of december 31, 2019 with a total notional value of $10 million. we had two outstanding forward currency contracts as of december 31, 2018 with a total notional value of $13 million. these outstanding forward currency contracts were not designated as hedges and had maturities of less than 90 days. we recognize gains and losses from our derivative contracts in our consolidated statement of operations and have recorded a net gain of $1 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, a net loss of $3 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, and was not material for the year ended december 31, 2017, respectively, in other income (expense), net on our consolidated statements of operations. refer to note 7: financial instruments and fair value measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 on this annual report on form 10-k for further detail on our derivative instruments. as we increase our operations in international markets, our exposure to potentially volatile movements in foreign currency exchange rates increases. the economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions, and other factors. these changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our foreign currency risk strategies. for example, brexit has caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. although the u.k. ceased to be a member of the e.u. on january 31, 2020, the u.k. and e.u. will continue to work on the terms of the departure through a transition period ending december 31, 2020. continued uncertainty regarding brexit may result in future exchange rate volatility. since the final terms of the u.k.'s exit from the e. u. remain uncertain, we are unable to predict the effect brexit will have on our business and results of operations. 59 ite m 8. financial statements and supplementary data index to financial statements and supplementary data: report of independent registered public accounting firm 61 consolidated statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 201 7 63 consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 201 7 64 consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2019 and 201 8 65 consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 66 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 67 notes to consolidated financial statements 68 60 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the stockholders and board of directors tripadvisor, inc.: opinion on the consolidated financial statements we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended december 31, 2019, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements). in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended december 31, 2019, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) (pcaob), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2019, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission , and our report dated february 19, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. basis for opinion these consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. critical audit matter the critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. the communication of a critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. evaluation of the sufficiency of audit evidence over revenue as discussed in notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements, and disclosed in the consolidated statements of operations, the company had $1.560 billion in revenue for the year ended december 31, 2019, of which $779 million was hotels related, $160 million was display and platform related, $456 million related to experiences and dining and $165 million of other revenue. each of these categories of revenue has multiple 61 revenue streams and the company's processes and information technology (it) systems differ between each revenue stream. we identified the evaluation of sufficiency of audit evidence over revenue as a critical audit matter. this matter required especially subjective auditor judgment due to the number of revenue streams and the related it applications utilized throughout the revenue recognition processes. subjective auditor judgment was required to evaluate that relevant revenue data was captured and aggregated throughout these various it applications. this matter also included determining the revenue streams over which procedures would be performed and evaluating the nature and extent of evidence obtained over each revenue stream, both of which included the involvement of it professionals with specialized skills and knowledge. the primary procedures performed to address this critical audit matter included the following. we performed risk assessment procedures and applied auditor judgment to determine the nature and extent of procedures to be performed over revenue. for each revenue stream where procedures were performed, we: - tested certain internal controls over the company's revenue processes, including the company's controls over the accurate recording of amounts. - for certain revenue streams, assessed the recorded revenue by selecting a sample of transactions and compared the amounts recognized for consistency with underlying documentation, including evidence of contracts with customers. - for certain revenue streams, assessed the recorded revenue by comparing the total cash received during the year to the revenue recognized, including evaluating the relevance and reliability of the inputs to the assessment. we involved it professionals with specialized skills and knowledge, who assisted in: - testing certain it applications used by the company in its revenue recognition process. - testing the transfer of relevant revenue data between certain systems used in the revenue recognition process. in addition, we evaluated the overall sufficiency of audit evidence obtained over revenue. /s/ kpmg llp we have served as the company's auditor since 2014. boston, massachusetts february 19, 2020 62 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of operations (in millions, except per share amounts) year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 revenue (note 4) $ 1,560 $ 1,615 $ 1,556 costs and expenses: cost of revenue (1)(2) 94 86 72 selling and marketing (2) 672 778 849 technology and content (2) 294 275 243 general and administrative (2) 187 177 157 depreciation 93 82 79 amortization of intangible assets 33 34 32 total costs and expenses 1,373 1,432 1,432 operating income 187 183 124 other income (expense): interest expense ( 7 ) ( 12 ) ( 15 ) interest income 17 7 1 other income (expense), net (note 19) ( 3 ) ( 5 ) total other income (expense), net 7 ( 10 ) ( 14 ) income before income taxes 194 173 110 provision for income taxes (note 11) ( 68 ) ( 60 ) ( 129 ) net income (loss) $ 126 $ 113 $ ( 19 ) earnings (loss) per share attributable to common stockholders (note 5): basic $ 0.91 $ 0.82 $ ( 0.14 ) diluted $ 0.89 $ 0.81 $ ( 0.14 ) weighted average common shares outstanding (note 5): basic 139 138 140 diluted 141 140 140 (1) excludes amortization expense as follows: amortization of acquired technology included in amortization of intangible assets $ 10 $ 8 $ 8 amortization of website development costs included in depreciation 63 59 54 $ 73 $ 67 $ 62 (2) includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (note 6): cost of revenue $ 1 $ 1 $ selling and marketing $ 23 $ 21 $ 21 technology and content $ 55 $ 51 $ 40 general and administrative $ 45 $ 45 $ 35 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 63 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions) year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 net income (loss) $ 126 $ 113 $ ( 19 ) other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax (1) 1 ( 20 ) 35 reclassification adjustment for net losses included in net income ( 2 ) total other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax ( 1 ) ( 20 ) 35 comprehensive income $ 125 $ 93 $ 16 (1) through the year ended december 31, 2018, foreign currency translation adjustments excluded a provision for u.s. federal and state income taxes as a result of the company's intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of its international subsidiaries outside of the united states. in response to increased cash requirements in the u.s. related to the company's declaration of a special cash dividend and other strategic initiatives during the fourth quarter of 2019, we determined that we no longer consider certain foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested. the deferred income tax liability related to foreign currency translation adjustments is not material. refer to note 11: income taxes for further information. the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 64 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated balance sheets (in millions, except number of shares and per share amounts) december 31, december 31, 2019 2018 assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents (note 7) $ 319 $ 655 short-term marketable securities (note 7) 15 accounts receivable and contract assets, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $ 25 and $ 21 , respectively (note 2, note 4) 183 212 prepaid expenses and other current assets 31 33 total current assets 533 915 property and equipment, net (note 8) 270 253 operating lease right-of-use assets (note 2) 74 intangible assets, net (note 9) 110 118 goodwill (note 9) 840 756 deferred income taxes, net (note 11) 7 27 non-marketable investments (note 7) 55 12 other long-term assets 95 86 total assets $ 1,984 $ 2,167 liabilities and stockholders' equity current liabilities: accounts payable $ 11 $ 15 deferred merchant payables (note 2) 159 164 deferred revenue (note 4) 62 63 accrued expenses and other current liabilities (note 12) 203 151 total current liabilities 435 393 deferred income taxes, net (note 11) 8 21 other long-term liabilities (note 13) 380 282 total liabilities 823 696 commitments and contingencies (note 14) stockholders' equity: (note 16) preferred stock, $ 0.001 par value authorized shares: 100,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 0 and 0 common stock, $ 0.001 par value authorized shares: 1,600,000,000 shares issued: 138,698,307 and 137,158,010 , respectively shares outstanding: 124,581,773 and 125,101,322 , respectively class b common stock, $ 0.001 par value authorized shares: 400,000,000 shares issued and outstanding: 12,799,999 and 12,799,999 , respectively additional paid-in capital 1,150 1,037 retained earnings 681 1,043 accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( 63 ) ( 62 ) treasury stock-common stock, at cost, 14,116,534 and 12,056,688 shares, respectively ( 607 ) ( 547 ) total stockholders' equity 1,161 1,471 total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 1,984 $ 2,167 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 65 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity (in millions, except number of shares and per share amounts) accumulated additional other class b paid-in retained comprehensive common stock common stock capital earnings income (loss) treasury stock total shares amount shares amount shares amount balance as of december 31, 2016 134,706,467 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 831 $ 945 $ ( 77 ) ( 3,395,487 ) $ ( 197 ) $ 1,502 net loss ( 19 ) ( 19 ) other comprehensive income (loss) 35 35 issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 910,796 3 3 repurchase of common stock (note 16) ( 6,079,003 ) ( 250 ) ( 250 ) withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards ( 17 ) ( 17 ) stock-based compensation (note 6) 109 109 balance as of december 31, 2017 135,617,263 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 926 $ 926 $ ( 42 ) ( 9,474,490 ) $ ( 447 ) $ 1,363 net income 113 113 cumulative effect adjustment from adoption of new accounting guidance 4 4 other comprehensive income (loss) ( 20 ) ( 20 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 1,540,747 6 6 repurchase of common stock (note 16) ( 2,582,198 ) ( 100 ) ( 100 ) withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards ( 26 ) ( 26 ) stock-based compensation (note 6) 131 131 balance as of december 31, 2018 137,158,010 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 1,037 $ 1,043 $ ( 62 ) ( 12,056,688 ) $ ( 547 ) $ 1,471 net income 126 126 cumulative effect adjustment from adoption of new accounting guidance (note 2) 3 3 other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax ( 1 ) ( 1 ) issuance of common stock related to exercise of options and vesting of rsus 1,540,297 2 2 repurchase of common stock (note 16) ( 2,059,846 ) ( 60 ) ( 60 ) cash dividends declared to common stockholders (declared at $ 3.50 per share) (note 16) ( 488 ) ( 488 ) common stock dividend equivalents awarded to holders of nonvested restricted stock units (note 16) ( 3 ) ( 3 ) withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards ( 29 ) ( 29 ) stock-based compensation (note 6) 140 140 balance as of december 31, 2019 138,698,307 $ 12,799,999 $ $ 1,150 $ 681 $ ( 63 ) ( 14,116,534 ) $ ( 607 ) $ 1,161 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 66 tripadvisor, inc. consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions) year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 operating activities: net income (loss) $ 126 $ 113 $ ( 19 ) adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development 93 82 79 amortization of intangible assets 33 34 32 stock-based compensation expense (note 6) 124 118 96 deferred income tax expense (benefit) and other, net 14 12 39 changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions and other investments: accounts receivable and contract assets, prepaid expenses and other assets 23 ( 8 ) ( 36 ) accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities ( 1 ) 22 deferred merchant payables ( 3 ) 14 14 income tax receivables/payables, net 17 13 38 deferred revenue ( 2 ) 5 ( 5 ) net cash provided by operating activities 424 405 238 investing activities: capital expenditures, including internal-use software and website development ( 83 ) ( 61 ) ( 64 ) acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired (note 3) ( 110 ) ( 24 ) purchases of marketable securities ( 133 ) ( 16 ) ( 63 ) sales of marketable securities 80 59 105 maturities of marketable securities 70 5 28 other investing activities, net ( 12 ) net cash provided by (used in) investing activities ( 176 ) ( 49 ) 6 financing activities: repurchase of common stock (note 16) ( 60 ) ( 100 ) ( 250 ) payment of common stock cash dividends to stockholders (note 16) ( 488 ) proceeds from 2015 credit facility, net of financing costs (note 10) 5 433 payments to 2015 credit facility (note 10) ( 235 ) ( 296 ) proceeds from chinese credit facilities (note 10) 2 payments to chinese credit facilities (note 10) ( 10 ) payments to 2016 credit facility (note 10) ( 73 ) payments of finance lease obligation (note 2) ( 5 ) proceeds from exercise of stock options 2 6 3 payment of withholding taxes on net share settlements of equity awards ( 29 ) ( 26 ) ( 17 ) net cash used in financing activities ( 580 ) ( 358 ) ( 200 ) effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash ( 4 ) ( 16 ) 17 net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash ( 336 ) ( 18 ) 61 cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 655 673 612 cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 319 $ 655 $ 673 supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: cash paid during the period for income taxes, net of refunds $ 47 $ 53 $ 62 cash paid during the period for interest $ 6 $ 8 $ 13 supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities: stock-based compensation capitalized with internal-use software and website development costs $ 19 $ 13 $ 13 equity method investment acquired for non-cash consideration $ 41 $ $ the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 67 tripadvisor , inc. notes to consolidated financial statements note 1: organization and business description we refer to tripadvisor, inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiaries as tripadvisor, the company, us, we and our in these notes to the consolidated financial statements. on december 20, 2011, expedia group, inc. ( expedia ) completed a spin-off of tripadvisor into a separate publicly traded delaware corporation. we refer to this transaction as the spin-off. tripadvisor's common stock began trading on the nasdaq as an independent public company on december 21, 2011, under the trading symbol trip. on december 11, 2012, liberty interactive corporation, or liberty, purchased an aggregate of approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock of tripadvisor from barry diller, our former chairman of the board of directors and senior executive, and certain of his affiliates. as a result, liberty beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock. on august 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and class b common stock held by liberty was acquired by liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc., or ltrip. simultaneously, liberty, ltrip's former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its liberty ventures common stock, liberty's entire equity interest in ltrip. we refer to this transaction as the liberty spin-off . as a result of the liberty spin-off, effective august 27, 2014, ltrip became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100 % of liberty's interest in tripadvisor. as a result of these transactions, as of december 31, 2019, ltrip beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock, which constitute 14.6 % of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100 % of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 22.5 % of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share , ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 57.9 % of our voting power. description of business tripadvisor is a leading online travel company and our mission is to help people around the world plan, book and experience the perfect trip. we operate a global travel platform that connects the world's largest audience of prospective travelers with travel partners through rich content, price comparison tools, and online reservation and related services for destinations, accommodations, travel activities and experiences, and restaurants . under our flagship brand, tripadvisor, we launched www.tripadvisor.com in the united states in 2000. since then, we have launched localized versions of the tripadvisor website in 48 markets and 28 languages worldwide. tripadvisor features 859 million reviews and opinions on 8.6 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do including 1.4 million hotels, inns, b bs and specialty lodging, 842,000 rental properties, 5.2 million restaurants and 1.2 million travel activities and experiences worldwide. tripadvisor's rich content and engaged community attract the world's largest travel audience, based on monthly unique visitors, including 463 million average monthly unique visitors in the third quarter of 2019 during the peak summer travel season . in addition to the flagship tripadvisor brand, we own and operate a portfolio of travel media brands and businesses, operating under various websites including the following : www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bokun.io, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.restorando.com , and www.bookatable.co.uk), www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.housetrip.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.singleplatform.com , www.smartertravel.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and www.viator.com . 68 during the first quarter of 2019, a part of our continuous review of the business, we evaluated our operations and realigned the reportable segment information which our chief operating decision maker, or codm, regularly assesses to evaluate performance for operating decision-making purposes, including evaluation and allocation of resources. the codm for the company is our chief executive officer. the revised segment reporting structure includes the following reportable segments: (1) hotels, media platform and (2) experiences dining. for further information on our segments and principal revenue streams within these segments refer to note 4: revenue recognition and note 18: segment and geographic information in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. all prior period segment disclosure information has been reclassified to conform to the current reporting structure in this form 10-k. these reclassifications had no effect on our consolidated financial statements in any period. seasonality consumers' travel expenditures follow a seasonal pattern. correspondingly, travel partners' advertising investments and, therefore, our revenue and profits, also follow a seasonal pattern. our financial performance tends to be seasonally highest in the second and third quarters of a given year, which includes the seasonal peak in consumer demand, traveler hotel and rental stays, and travel activities and experiences taken, compared to the first and fourth quarters, which represent seasonal low points. significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends . note 2: significant accounting policies basis of presentation and consolidation the accompanying consolidated financial statements include tripadvisor, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and entities we control, or in which we have a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary of expected cash profits or losses. all inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. additionally, certain prior period amounts have been reclassified for comparability with the current period presentation. the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( gaap ). we believe that the assumptions underlying our consolidated financial statements are reasonable. however, these consolidated financial statements do not present our future financial position, the results of our future operations and cash flows. one of our subsidiaries that operates in china has variable interests in affiliated entities in china in order to comply with chinese laws and regulations, which restrict foreign investment in internet content provision businesses. although we do not own the capital stock of these chinese affiliates, we consolidate their results as we are the primary beneficiary of the cash losses or profits of these variable interest affiliates and have the power to direct the activity of these affiliates. our variable interest entities' financials results were not material for all periods presented. investments in entities in which we do not have a controlling financial interest are accounted for under the equity method, the fair value option, as available-for-sale securities or at cost adjusted for observable price changes and impairments, as appropriate. accounting estimates we use estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with gaap. our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of our consolidated financial statements. these estimates and assumptions also affect the reported amount of net income or loss during any period. our actual financial results could differ significantly from these estimates. the significant estimates underlying our consolidated financial statements include: (i) recognition and recoverability of goodwill, definite-lived intangibles and other long-lived assets and (ii) accounting for income taxes. refer to note 11: income taxes for further discussion of our significant income tax amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. 69 revenue recognition refer to note 4: revenue recognition for a discussion about our revenue recognition policies and other financial disclosures. cost of revenue cost of revenue consists of expenses that are directly related or closely correlated to revenue generation, including direct costs, such as credit card and other booking transaction payment fees, data center costs, costs associated with prepaid tour tickets, ad serving fees, flight search fees, and other transaction costs. in addition, cost of revenue includes personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses for certain customer support personnel who are directly involved in revenue generation. selling and marketing selling and marketing expenses primarily consist of direct costs, including traffic generation costs from sem and other online traffic acquisition costs, syndication costs and affiliate program commissions, social media costs, brand advertising (including television and other offline advertising), promotions and public relations. in addition, our sales and marketing expenses consist of indirect costs such as personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation, and bonuses for sales, sales support, customer support and marketing employees . we incur advertising expense, which includes traffic generation costs from sem and other online traffic costs, affiliate program commissions, display advertising, social media, and other online, and offline (primarily television) advertising expense, promotions and public relations to promote our brands. we expense the costs associated with communicating the advertisements in the period in which the advertisement takes place. we expense the production costs associated with advertisements in the period in which the advertisement first takes place. for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded advertising expense of $ 423 million, $ 544 million, and $ 629 million, respectively, in selling and marketing expense on our consolidated statements of operations. as of both december 31, 2019 and 2018, we had $ 2 million of prepaid advertising expenses included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheets. we expect to fully expense our prepaid advertising asset of $ 2 million as of december 31, 2019 to the consolidated statement of operations during 2020. technology and content technology and content expenses consist primarily of personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries and benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and bonuses for salaried employees and contractors engaged in the design, development, testing, content support, and maintenance of our websites and mobile apps. other costs include licensing, maintenance expense, computer supplies, telecom costs, content translation and localization costs, and consulting costs . general and administrative general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead costs, including personnel engaged in leadership, finance, legal, and human resources, as well as stock-based compensation expense for those same personnel. general and administrative costs also include professional service fees and other fees including audit, legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including bad debt expense, non-income taxes, such as sales, use and other non-income related taxes . stock-based compensation stock options. the exercise price for all stock options granted by us has been equal to the market price of the underlying shares of common stock at the date of grant. in this regard, when making stock option awards, our practice is to determine the applicable grant date and to specify that the exercise price shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. our stock options generally have a term of ten years from the date of grant and typically vest equally over a four-year requisite service period. we amortize the grant-date fair value of our stock option grants as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term on a straight-line basis, with the 70 amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date . the estimated grant-date fair value of stock options is calculated using a black-scholes merton option-pricing model ( black-scholes model ). the black-scholes model incorporates assumptions to fair value stock-based awards, which includes the risk-free rate of return, expected volatility, expected term and expected dividend yield. our risk-free interest rate is based on the rates currently available on zero-coupon u.s. treasury issues, in effect at the time of the grant, whose remaining maturity period most closely approximates the stock option's expected term assumption. our expected volatility is calculated by equally weighting the historical volatility and implied volatility on our own common stock. historical volatility is determined using actual daily price observations of our common stock price over a period equivalent to or approximate to the expected term of our stock option grants to date. implied volatility represents the volatility calculated from the observed prices of our actively traded options on our common stock, with remaining maturities in excess of six months and market prices approximate to the exercise prices of the stock option grant. we estimate our expected term using historical exercise behavior and expected post-vest termination data. our expected dividend yield is zero as we have not historically paid regular cash dividends on our common stock and do not expect to pay regular cash dividends for the foreseeable future. restricted stock units. rsus are stock awards that are granted to employees entitling the holder to shares of our common stock as the award vests. rsus are measured at fair value based on the quoted price of our common stock at the date of grant. we amortize the fair value of rsus as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term, which is typically over a four-year requisite service period on a straight-line basis, with the amount of compensation expense recognized at any date at least equaling the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. performance-based awards. performance-based stock options and rsus vest upon achievement of certain company-based performance conditions and a requisite service period. on the date of grant, the fair value of a performance-based award is calculated using the same method as our service based stock options and rsus described above. we then assess whether it is probable that the individual performance targets would be achieved. if assessed as probable, compensation expense will be recorded for these awards over the estimated performance period. at each reporting period, we will reassess the probability of achieving the performance targets and the performance period required to meet those targets. the estimation of whether the performance targets will be achieved and of the performance period required to achieve the targets requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, the cumulative effect on current and prior periods of those changes will be recorded in the period estimates are revised, or the change in estimate will be applied prospectively depending on whether the change affects the estimate of total compensation cost to be recognized or merely affects the period over which compensation cost is to be recognized. the ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation expense recognized will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. market-based awards . we issue market-based performance rsus, or market-based rsus ( msus ), which vest upon achievement of specified levels of market conditions. the fair value of our msus is estimated at the date of grant using a monte-carlo simulation model. the probabilities of the actual number of market-based performance units expected to vest and resultant actual number of shares of common stock expected to be awarded are reflected in the grant date fair values therefore, the compensation expense for these awards will be recognized assuming the requisite service period is rendered and are not adjusted based on the actual number of awards that ultimately vest. estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive these awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of our original estimates of fair value. the company accounts for forfeitures in the period in which they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. income taxes we record income taxes under the asset and liability method. deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. we determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting 71 methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted income tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. we consider all relevant factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as assessing available tax planning strategies. we may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. we classify deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent on our consolidated balance sheet. we record liabilities to address uncertain tax positions we have taken in previously filed tax returns or that we expect to take in a future tax return. the determination for required liabilities is based upon an analysis of each individual tax position, taking into consideration whether it is more likely than not that our tax position, based on technical merits, will be sustained upon examination. cash and cash equivalents our cash consists of cash deposits held in global financial institutions. our cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments, including money market funds and marketable debt securities, with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase. for all periods presented, our restricted cash, which primarily consists of escrowed security deposits, was not material and is included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheet. marketable securities we classify our marketable debt securities as either short-term or long-term based on each instrument's underlying contractual maturity date and as to whether and when we intend to sell a particular security prior to its maturity date. marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 90 days at the date of purchase and 12 months or less remaining at the balance sheet date will be classified as short-term and marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date will generally be classified as long-term. we classify our marketable equity securities, limited by policy to money market funds and mutual funds, as either a cash equivalent, short-term or long-term based on the nature of each security and its availability for use in current operations. our marketable debt securities are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale, and therefore are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a component of stockholders' equity. fair values are determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. we determine the appropriate classification of our marketable securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate the designations at each balance sheet date. we invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. the policy requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss and providing liquidity of investments sufficient to meet our operating and capital spending requirements and debt repayments. realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities are determined by specific identification of each security's cost basis. we may sell certain of our marketable securities prior to their stated maturities for strategic reasons including, but not limited to, anticipation of credit deterioration, liquidity, and duration management. the weighted average maturity of our total invested cash shall not exceed 18 months, and no security shall have a final maturity date greater than three years , according to our investment policy. we continually review our available for sale securities to determine whether a decline in fair value below the carrying value is other than temporary. when evaluating an investment for other-than-temporary impairment, we review factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below its cost basis, the financial 72 condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and our intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell the investment before recovery of the investment's cost basis. once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. if we do not intend to sell the security, but it is probable that we will not collect all amounts due, then only the impairment due to the credit risk would be recognized in earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment would be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. non-marketable equity investments we account for non-marketable equity investments through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee under the equity method. under this method, the investment, originally recorded at cost, is adjusted to recognize the company ' share of net earnings or losses of the investment as they occur rather than as dividends or other distributions are received. losses are limited to the extent of the company ' investment in, advances to and commitments for the investee. in the event we are unable to obtain accurate financial information from the investee in a timely manner, we record our share of earnings or losses of such equity investment on a lag. our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method and that do not have a readily determinable fair value are accounted for under the measurement alternative. under the measurement alternative, the carrying value is measured at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. adjustments are determined primarily based on a market approach as of the transaction date. we classify our non-marketable equity investments as long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheet as those investments do not have stated contractual maturity dates. on a quarterly basis, we perform a qualitative assessment considering impairment indicators to evaluate whether these investments are impaired. qualitative factors considered include industry and market conditions, financial performance, business prospects, and other relevant events and factors. when indicators of impairment exist, we prepare a quantitative assessment of the fair value of our equity investments, which may include using both the market and income approaches which require judgment and the use of estimates, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and available comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. when our assessment indicates that an impairment exists, we measure our non-marketable equity securities at fair value. valuations of such privately-held companies are inherently complex and uncertain due to the lack of liquid market for the company's securities. in addition, such investments are inherently risky in that such companies are typically at an early stage of development, may have no or limited revenues, may not be or may never become profitable, may not be able to secure additional funding or their technologies, services or products may not be successfully developed or introduced into the market. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts accounts receivable are recognized when the right to consideration becomes unconditional and are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. we record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount. our customer invoices are generally due 30 days from the time of invoicing. collateral is not required for accounts receivable. for all accounts, we may determine an allowance by considering a number of factors, including the length of time trade accounts receivable are past due, previous loss history, a specific customer's ability to pay its obligations to us, and the condition of the general economy and industry as a whole. 73 the following table presents the changes in our allowance for doubtful accounts for the periods presented: december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) allowance for doubtful accounts: balance, beginning of period $ 21 $ 16 $ 9 charges to earnings 11 11 8 write-offs, net of recoveries and other adjustments ( 7 ) ( 6 ) ( 1 ) balance, end of period $ 25 $ 21 $ 16 derivative financial instruments in certain circumstances, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts ( forward contracts ) to reduce, to the extent practical, our potential exposure to the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. we account for derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value, with any subsequent adjustments to fair value recorded in other income (expense), net on our consolidated statements of operations. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of a given subsidiary are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in other income (expense), net on our consolidated statements of operations. accordingly, fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward differences. these differences are not expected to be significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which to date, have typically had maturities at inception of 90 days or less. the net cash received or paid related to our derivative instruments are classified in other investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. counterparties to forward contracts consist of major international financial institutions. we monitor our positions and the credit ratings of the counterparties involved and, by policy limits, the amount of credit exposure to any one party. we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. we had not entered into any cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges as of december 31, 2019. refer to note 7: financial instruments and fair value measurements for further disclosure on our derivatives. property and equipment, including website and software development costs we record property and equipment at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. we capitalize certain costs incurred during the application development stage related to the development of websites and internal use software when it is probable the project will be completed and the software will be used as intended. capitalized costs include internal and external costs, if direct and incremental, and deemed by management to be significant. we expense costs related to the planning and post-implementation phases of software and website development as these costs are incurred. maintenance and enhancement costs (including those costs in the post-implementation stages) are typically expensed as incurred, unless such costs relate to substantial upgrades and enhancements to the website or software resulting in added functionality, in which case the costs are capitalized. we compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which is three to five years for computer equipment, capitalized software and website development, office furniture and other equipment. we depreciate leasehold improvements using the straight-line method, over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the improvement or the remaining term of the lease. leases we lease office space in a number of countries around the world, generally under non-cancelable operating lease agreements. our headquarters lease is our most significant office space lease, accounted for as a finance lease under the new lease accounting guidance, or asc 842, leases , which the company adopted on january 1, 2019. the 74 company has also entered into data center and certain equipment leases, such as network equipment and other leases, which are not material to our consolidated financial statements. refer to the recently adopted accounting pronouncements section below , for a detailed accounting discussion on the impact of this new guidance to our existing leases and accounting policy. business combinations we account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting which requires that the tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired and assumed liabilities be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. any excess purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. when determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets may include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from customer and supplier relationships, acquired technology and trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. any changes to provisional amounts identified during the measurement period, calculated as if the accounting had been completed as of the acquisition date, are recognized in the consolidated financial statements in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. goodwill and intangible assets goodwill we assess goodwill, which is not amortized, for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. goodwill is assigned to reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination as of the acquisition date. we evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. once goodwill has been allocated to the reporting units, it no longer retains its identification with a particular acquisition and becomes identified with the reporting unit in its entirety. accordingly, the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is available to support the recoverability of its goodwill. the company has the option to qualitatively assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. in the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we generally first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50 %) that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. periodically, we may choose to forgo the initial qualitative assessment and proceed directly to a quantitative analysis to assist in our annual evaluation. when assessing goodwill for impairment, our decision to perform a qualitative impairment assessment for an individual reporting unit in a given year is influenced by a number of factors, including, but not limited to the size of the reporting unit's goodwill, the significance of the excess of the reporting unit's estimated fair value over carrying value at the last quantitative assessment date, the amount of time in between quantitative fair value assessments from the date of acquisition to establish an updated baseline quantitative analysis, and other performance and market indicators. during a qualitative assessment, if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, we then perform a quantitative assessment and compare the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value. if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the goodwill impairment is measured using the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the reporting unit however, any loss recognized cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. in determining the estimated fair values of reporting units in a quantitative goodwill impairment test, we generally use a blend, of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (discounted cash flows model) and the market valuation approach, which we believe compensates for the inherent risks of using either model on a stand-alone basis. the discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based 75 on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: weighted average cost of capital long-term rate of growth and profitability of the reporting unit income tax rates and working capital effects. the market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business and other precedent transactions. our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and/or income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. we believe that the estimated fair values assigned to our reporting units in impairment tests are based on reasonable assumptions that marketplace participants would use. however, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. the use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments could trigger the need for an impairment charge, or materially increase or decrease the amount of any such impairment charge . during the first quarter of 2019, the composition of our reportable segments was revised, as discussed in note 1: organization and business description . prior to implementing the revised segment reporting structure, our previously disclosed hotel segment was considered a single reporting unit. following the change in reportable segments, our legacy hotel reporting unit was split into four distinct reporting units (1) hotels, media platform, (2) smartertravel, (3) flights, cruises and car, and (4) tripadvisor china for the purposes of goodwill impairment testing. as a result, we first performed a qualitative assessment on our previous hotel reporting unit prior to implementing the revised segment reporting structure and determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of this reporting unit was greater than the carrying value which was consistent with our conclusion in the fourth quarter of 2018. we then performed a goodwill impairment test for each of the new reporting units upon the change in reportable segments using a quantitative assessment. we concluded the estimated fair values were significantly in excess of the carrying values for these reporting units. we also performed sensitivity analyses, such as calculating estimated fair values using different rates for the weighted-average cost of capital and long-term rates of growth in the income approach and different revenue/income multiples in our market approach and the estimated fair values remained in excess of the carrying values. therefore, no indications of impairment were identified as a result of these changes in the first quarter of 2019. during the company's annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2019, a qualitative assessment was performed for the following reporting units: (1) hotels, media platform, (2) smartertravel, (3) flights, cruises and car, (4) dining, and (5) experiences, while a quantitative assessment of the rentals and tripadvisor china reporting units goodwill was performed. for fiscal 2019, we determined the fair value of all our reporting units were in excess of their carrying values. accordingly, we did no t recognize any impairment charges during the year ending december 31, 2019 . as part of our qualitative assessment for our 2019 goodwill impairment analysis of our reporting units, the factors that we considered included, but were not limited to: (a) changes in macroeconomic conditions in the overall economy and the specific markets in which we operate, (b) our ability to access capital, (c) changes in the online travel industry, (d) changes in the level of competition, (e) evaluation of current and future forecasted financial results of the reporting units, (f) comparison of our current financial performance to historical and budgeted results of the reporting units, (g) change in excess of the company's market capitalization over its book value including the decrease in the company's market price during 2019, (h) changes in estimates, valuation inputs, and/or assumptions since the last quantitative analysis of the reporting units, (i) changes in the regulatory environment (j) changes in strategic outlook or organizational structure and leadership of the reporting units and (k) other relevant factors, and how these factors might impact specific performance in future periods. however, as we periodically reassess estimated future cash flows and asset fair values, changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material impairment charges in the future. intangible assets intangible assets with estimable useful lives, or definite-lived intangibles, are carried at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment upon certain triggering events. we routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives of definite-lived intangible assets. if we reduce the estimated useful life assumption, the remaining unamortized balance is amortized over the revised estimated useful life. 76 intangible assets that have indefinite lives are not amortized and are tested for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. similar to the qualitative assessment for goodwill, we may assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. if, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, we compare the implied fair value of the indefinite-lived asset with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of an individual indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its implied fair value, the individual asset is written down by an amount equal to such excess. the assessment of qualitative factors is optional and at our discretion. we may bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. we base our quantitative measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, using the relief-from-royalty method. this method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. this method requires us to estimate future revenues, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital, h owever, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. the use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments could trigger the need for an impairment charge, or materially increase or decrease the amount of any such impairment charge . the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets that is subject to annual assessment for impairment is $ 30 million at december 31, 2019 and consists of trademarks and tradenames. during the company's annual indefinite-lived intangible impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2019, a qualitative assessment was performed. as part of our qualitative assessment we considered, amongst other factors, the amount of excess fair value of our trade names and trademarks to the carrying value of those same assets, changes in estimates, and valuation input assumptions, since our previous quantitative analysis. after considering these factors and the impact that changes in such factors would have on the inputs used in our previous quantitative assessment, we determined that it was more likely than not that our indefinite-lived intangible assets were no t impaired as of december 31, 2019. impairment of long-lived assets we periodically review the carrying amount of our definite-lived intangible assets and other long-term assets, including property and equipment and website and internal use software, to determine whether current events or circumstances indicate that such carrying amounts may not be recoverable. factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. if such facts indicate a potential impairment, we assess the recoverability of the asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset of the group. if the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows, using an appropriate discount rate. any impairment would be measured by the amount that the carrying values, of such asset groups, exceed their fair value and would be included in operating income on the consolidated statement of operations. considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate the fair value of asset groups. accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. we have not identified any circumstances that would warrant an impairment charge for any recorded definite-lived intangibles or other long term assets on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2019. deferred merchant payables in our experiences and rentals free-to-list offerings, we generally receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts, net of commissions, on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant payables. we pay the suppliers, or the vacation rental owners and third-party experience providers, respectively, after the travelers' use. therefore, we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying the supplier and this operating 77 cycle represents a working capital source or use of cash to us. our deferred merchant payables balance was $ 159 million and $ 164 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses our consolidated financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars. certain of our subsidiaries outside of the united states use the related local currency as their functional currency and not the u.s. dollar. therefore assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate in effect at the applicable reporting date, and the consolidated statements of operations are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the applicable period. the resulting unrealized cumulative translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet. we also have subsidiaries that have transactions in foreign currencies other than their functional currency. transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise. subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transaction gains and losses which are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations as unrealized (based on the applicable period-end exchange rate) or realized upon settlement of the transactions. accordingly, we have recorded net foreign currency exchange losses of $ 2 million and $ 9 million for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and a net gain of $ 1 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, in other income (expense), net on our consolidated statement of operations. these amounts also include transaction gains and losses, both realized and unrealized from forward contracts. fair value measurements and disclosures we apply fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. we measure assets and liabilities at fair value based on the expected exit price, which is the amount that would be received on the sale of an asset or amount paid to transfer a liability, as the case may be, in an orderly transaction between market participants in the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact. as such, fair value may be based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement date. the authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value on either a recurring or nonrecurring basis whereby inputs, used in valuation techniques, are assigned a hierarchical level. gaap provides the following hierarchical levels of inputs used to measure fair value: level 1 valuations are based on quoted market prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. level 2 valuations are based on observable inputs other than quoted market prices included in level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. level 3 valuations are based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. these valuations require significant judgment. certain risks and concentrations our business is subject to certain risks and concentrations, including concentration related to dependence on our relationships with our customers. for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 our two most significant travel partners, expedia (and its subsidiaries) and booking (and its subsidiaries), each accounted for more than 10 % of our consolidated revenue and combined accounted for 33 %, 37 % and 43 %, respectively, of our consolidated revenue, with nearly all of this revenue concentrated in our hotels, media platform segment. refer to note 4: revenue recognition and note 18: segment and geographic information for information regarding concentrations related to geographic revenue and our products. financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk, consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, corporate debt securities, forward contracts, and accounts receivable. we maintain some cash 78 and cash equivalents balances with financial institutions that are in excess of federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits. our cash and cash equivalents are primarily composed of bank account balances with financial institutions primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, euros, british pounds, and australian dollars, as well as, money market funds. we invest in highly-rated corporate debt securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, industry group and currency. our credit risk related to corporate debt securities is also mitigated by the relatively short maturity period required by our investment policy. forward contracts are transacted with various international financial institutions with high credit standings, which to date, have typically had maturities of less than 90 days . our overall credit risk related to accounts receivable is mitigated by the relatively short collection period. contingent liabilities periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. we provide disclosure in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both these conditions if there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred that would be material to the consolidated financial statements. significant judgment may be required to determine the probability that a liability has been incurred and whether such liability is reasonably estimable. we base accruals made on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from the amounts included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. treasury stock shares of our common stock repurchased are recorded at cost as treasury stock and result in the reduction of stockholders' equity in our consolidated balance sheet. we may reissue these treasury shares. when treasury shares are reissued, we use the average cost method for determining the cost of reissued shares. if the issuance price is higher than the cost, the excess of the issuance price over the cost is credited to additional paid-in-capital. if the issuance price is lower than the cost, the difference is first charged against any credit balance in additional paid-in-capital from the previous issuances of treasury stock and any remaining balance is charged to retained earnings. earnings per share ( eps ) refer to note 5: earnings per share for a discussion about how we compute basic eps and diluted eps. new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted in august 2018, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which require a customer in a cloud computing arrangement (i.e., hosting arrangement) that is a service contract to follow the internal-use software guidance to determine which implementation costs to capitalize as assets or expense as incurred. the accounting for the cost of the hosting component of the arrangement (i.e., service costs the customer pays for the cloud computing service) is not affected by this new guidance. the company uses both internally-developed software and third-party software to operate its business. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, including adoption in any interim period. entities have the option to apply the guidance retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. we will adopt this new guidance as of january 1, 2020 on a prospective basis without adjusting the comparative periods presented. we do not expect the adoption of this new guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. in june 2016, the fasb issued new accounting guidance which replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss methodology on the measurement of credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, which includes accounts receivable and available-for-sale debt securities. for financial assets measured at amortized cost, this new guidance requires an entity to: (1) estimate its lifetime expected credit losses upon recognition of the financial assets and establish an allowance to present the net amount expected to be collected (2) recognize this allowance and changes in the allowance during subsequent periods through net income 79 and (3) consider relevant information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts in assessing the lifetime expected credit losses. for available-for-sale debt securities, this new guidance made several targeted amendments to the existing other-than-temporary impairment model, including: (1) requiring disclosure of the allowance for credit losses (2) allowing reversals of the previously recognized credit losses until the entity has the intent to sell, is more-likely-than-not required to sell the securities or the maturity of the securities (3) limiting impairment to the difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value and (4) not allowing entities to consider the length of time that fair value has been less than amortized cost as a factor in evaluating whether a credit loss exists. this guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after december 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, including interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018. entities are required to adopt this new guidance on a modified retrospective basis with a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption without adjusting the comparative periods presented . we will adopt this new guidance as of january 1, 2020. we do not expect the adoption of this new guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. recently adopted accounting pronouncements in february 2016, the fasb issued new guidance which revises the accounting for leases ( asc 842 ). asc 842 requires entities that lease assets to recognize right-of-use (rou) assets representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities related to the rights and obligations created by those leases on the balance sheet regardless of whether they are classified as finance or operating leases, with classification affecting the pattern and presentation of expenses and cash flows on our consolidated financial statements . in addition, new disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of the financial statements to better understand the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. w e adopted asc 842 on january 1, 2019 and elected the modified retrospective transition method that allowed for a cumulative-effect adjustment in the period of adoption. financial results for reporting periods beginning after january 1, 2019 are presented under asc 842, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. the company has also updated its accounting policies to reflect the new guidance and has implemented lease accounting software to support its accounting process, financial reporting, and new financial disclosure requirements. we elected the following practical expedients available in transition upon adoption of asc 842 and accounting policy updates: 1) the practical expedients package of three , which allows us to not reassess the following as of the adoption date: a) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain a lease b) the lease classification for any expired or existing leases and c) the accounting treatment for initial direct costs for existing leases 2) the short-term lease recognition exemption , which allows entities to forego recognition of rou assets and lease liabilities for leases with a lease term of twelve months or less and which also do not include an option to renew the lease term that the entity is reasonably certain to exercise 3) elect by asset class as an accounting policy, to combine lease and non-lease components as a single component and subsequently account for the combined single component as the lease component and 4) apply the portfolio approach to similar types of leases where the company does not reasonably expect the outcome to differ materially from applying the new guidance to individual leases. the adoption of asc 842 did not have a material impact to both our consolidated statement of operations and consolidated statement of cash flows during the year ended december 31, 2019. the effect on our consolidated balance sheet as of january 1, 2019 from the adoption of asc 842 is as follows: 80 balance at december 31, 2018 adjustments due to asc 842 balance at january 1, 2019 (in millions) assets: prepaid expenses and other current assets $ 33 $ ( 3 ) $ 30 property and equipment, net (1) 253 8 261 operating lease right-of-use assets (1) 75 75 deferred income taxes, net 27 ( 1 ) 26 other long-term assets 86 ( 2 ) 84 liabilities: accrued expenses and other current liabilities (2) 151 21 172 other long-term liabilities (1) 282 53 335 retained earnings (3) $ 1,043 $ 3 $ 1,046 (1) refer to the below discussion regarding the transition accounting for operating and finance leases upon adoption of asc 842. (2) this adjustment primarily represents the short-term portion of operating and finance lease obligations recorded upon adoption of asc 842, discussed below. (3) represents a cumulative-effect adjustment of $ 3 million, net of tax to our beginning balance of retained earnings recorded upon adoption of asc 842. we determine whether a contract is or contains a lease at inception of a contract. we define a lease as a contract, or part of a contract, that conveys the right to control the use of identified property, plant, or equipment (an identified asset) for a period of time in exchange for consideration. control over the use of the identified asset means that we have both the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset and the right to direct the use of the asset. our lease contracts contain both lease and non-lease components. we account separately for the lease and non-lease components of office space leases and certain other leases, such as data center leases. we allocate the consideration in the contract to the lease and non-lease components based on each component's relative standalone price. we determine standalone prices for the lease components based on the prices for which other lessors lease similar assets on a standalone basis. we determine standalone prices for the non-lease component based on the prices that other suppliers charge for services for similar assets on a standalone basis. if observable standalone prices are not readily available, we estimate the standalone prices based on other available observable information. however, for certain categories of equipment leases, such as network equipment and others, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. additionally, for certain equipment leases that have similar characteristics, we apply a portfolio approach to effectively account for operating lease rou assets and operating lease liabilities, hence we do not expect the outcome to differ materially from applying the new guidance to individual leases. the company uses its estimated incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate in measuring the present value of our lease payments given the rate implicit in our leases is not typically readily determinable. given we do not currently borrow on a collateralized basis, our incremental borrowing rate is estimated to approximate the interest rate in which the company would expect to pay on a collateralized basis over a similar term and payments, and in economic environments where the leased asset is located. we use the portfolio approach to determine the discount rate for leases with similar characteristics or when the company is reasonably certain that doing so would not materially affect the accounting for those leases to which a single discount rate is applied. we establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under lease arrangements where we are considered the owner for accounting purposes only, or build-to-suit leases, to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales 81 recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance under gaap. if we continue to be the deemed owner, for accounting purposes, the facilities are accounted for as financing obligations. we also establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to return certain of our leased facilities to their original condition for asset retirement obligations. such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated restoration costs and are included in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. our asset retirement obligations were not material as of december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018, respectively. operating leases our office space leases, exclusive of our headquarters lease, are operating leases, which we lease an aggregate of approximately 505,000 square feet of office space at approximately 50 other locations across north america, europe, asia pacific and south america, in cities such as new york, boston, london, sydney, barcelona, buenos aires and paris, primarily for our sales offices, subsidiary headquarters, and international management teams, pursuant to leases with various expiration dates, with the latest expiring in june 2027 . based on the present value of remaining lease payments on the company's existing leases, we recognized $ 88 million of both operating rou assets and operating lease liabilities, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheet upon adoption of asc 842, as of january 1, 2019. these operating rou assets were then reduced by a net deferred rent balance of $ 13 million as of january 1, 2019, which primarily consisted of existing deferred and prepaid rent balances. operating lease rou assets and liabilities commencing after january 1, 2019 are recognized at lease commencement date, or the date the lessor makes the leased asset available for use, based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term using the company's estimated incremental borrowing rate. rou assets related to operating leases comprise the initial lease liability, and are then adjusted for any prepaid or deferred rent payments, unamortized initial direct costs, and lease incentives received. amortization expense for operating lease rou assets and interest accretion on operating lease liabilities are recognized as a single operating lease cost in our consolidated statement of operations, which results effectively in recognition of rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease period. the carrying amount of operating lease liabilities are (1) accreted to reflect interest using the incremental borrowing rate if the rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable and (2) reduced to reflect lease payments made during the period. we present the combination of both the amortization of operating lease rou assets and the change in the operating lease liabilities in the same line item in the adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. lease incentives are recognized as reductions of rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. certain of our operating leases include options to extend the lease terms for up to 6 years and/or terminate the leases within 1 year , which we include in our lease term if we are reasonably certain to exercise these options. payments under our operating leases are primarily fixed, however, certain of our operating lease agreements include rental payments which are adjusted periodically for inflation. we recognize these costs as variable lease costs on our consolidated statement of operations, which were not material during the year ended december 31, 2019 and 2018. in addition, our short-term lease costs were not material in any period. as of december 31, 2019, we had operating lease rou assets of $ 74 million on our consolidated balance sheet. finance lease in june 2013, we entered into our headquarters lease. pursuant to the headquarters lease, the landlord built an approximately 280,000 square foot rental building in needham, massachusetts (the premises ), and leased the premises to the company as our new corporate headquarters for an initial term of 15 years and 7 months or through december 2030. the company also has an option to extend the term of the headquarters lease for two consecutive terms of five years each. the company was deemed to be the owner of the premises for accounting purposes only during the construction period under legacy gaap lease accounting rules, or asc 840. accordingly, the company recorded project construction costs during the construction period incurred by the landlord as a construction-in-progress asset and a related construction financing obligation on our consolidated balance sheet. the amounts that the company incurred for normal tenant improvements and structural improvements had also been recorded to the construction-in-progress asset. upon completion of construction at the end of the second quarter of 2015, we 82 evaluated the construction-in-progress asset and construction financing obligation for de-recognition under the criteria for sale-leaseback treatment under asc 840. we concluded that it did not meet the provisions for sale-leaseback accounting. therefore, the headquarters lease was accounted for as a financing obligation through december 31, 2018, in which we depreciated the building asset over its estimated useful life and incurred interest expense related to the financing obligation, imputed using the effective interest rate method. upon the adoption of asc 842 on january 1, 2019, we derecognized the previous asset and liability recorded for the headquarters lease described above, with the exception of a net asset of $ 26 million, primarily related to structural improvements paid by the company, net of tenant incentives and accumulated amortization, which is classified as prepaid rent under the new guidance. the company then assessed the lease classification of our headquarters lease and concluded it should be classified and accounted for as a finance lease upon adoption on january 1, 2019. accordingly, on january 1, 2019, we recognized a finance lease rou asset and a finance lease liability of $ 114 million and $ 88 million, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheet. the difference between the finance lease rou asset and finance lease liability represents the aforementioned $ 26 million of net prepaid rent, and is being amortized straight-line over the remaining lease term. as of december 31 , 2019, the rou asset related to our headquarters lease was $ 105 million, net of accumulated amortization of $ 9 million, and is included in the property and equipment, net on our consolidated balance sheet. finance lease rou assets and finance lease liabilities commencing after january 1, 2019 are recognized similar to an operating lease, at the lease commencement date or the date the lessor makes the leased asset available for use. finance lease rou assets are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the lease term, and the carrying amount of the finance lease liabilities are (1) accreted to reflect interest using the incremental borrowing rate if the rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable, and (2) reduced to reflect lease payments made during the period. amortization expense for finance lease rou assets and interest accretion on finance lease liabilities are recorded to depreciation and interest expense, respectively, in our consolidated statement of operations. we did not update any financial information or provide any disclosures required under the new guidance for both the years ended december 31 , 2018 and 2017, or as of december 31, 2018. the disclosures provided below for the years ended december 31 , 2018 and 2017, or as of december 31, 2018 are based on the disclosure requirements under asc 840. the components of lease expense were as follows for the periods presented : year ended december 31, 2019 (in millions) operating lease cost (1) $ 24 finance lease cost amortization of right-of-use assets (2) $ 9 interest on lease liabilities (3) 4 total finance lease cost $ 13 sublease income (1) ( 3 ) total lease cost, net $ 34 (1) operating lease costs, net of sublease income, are included within operating expenses in our consolidated statement of operations. during both the years ended december 31 , 2018 and 2017, we recorded operating lease expense of $ 21 million and sublease income of $ 3 million, in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with asc 840. (2) amount is included in depreciation expense in our consolidated statement of operations. during both the years ended december 31 , 2018 and 2017, we recorded depreciation expense of $ 3 million related to our headquarters lease in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with asc 840. (3) amount is included in interest expense in our consolidated statement of operations. during both the years ended december 31 , 2018 and 2017, we recorded interest expense of $ 7 million related to our headquarters lease in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with asc 840. 83 additional information related to our leases is as follows for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2019 supplemental cash flows information: (in millions) cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities: operating cash outflows from operating leases $ 26 operating cash outflows from finance lease 4 financing cash outflows from finance lease 5 right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease liabilities: operating leases (1) $ 106 finance lease (2) 88 (1) amount includes operating leases existing on january 1, 2019 of $ 88 million and those that commenced during the year ended december 31 , 2019 of $ 18 million. (2) amount represents the finance lease liability arising from obtaining the rou asset related to our headquarters lease, which was recognized upon the adoption of asc 842 on january 1, 2019. as of december 31, 2019 weighted-average remaining lease term: operating leases 4.4 years finance lease 11.0 years weighted-average discount rate: operating leases 4.11 % finance lease 4.49 % future lease payments under non-cancelable leases as of december 31, 2019 were as follows: year ending december 31, operating leases finance lease (in millions) 2020 $ 23 $ 9 2021 23 10 2022 19 10 2023 13 10 2024 8 10 thereafter 6 57 total future lease payments 92 106 less imputed interest ( 8 ) ( 23 ) total lease liabilities $ 84 $ 83 reported on consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2019 operating leases finance lease (in millions) accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ 20 $ 5 other long-term liabilities 64 78 total lease liabilities $ 84 $ 83 84 as of december 31, 2018, future minimum lease commitments under our headquarters lease and other non-cancelable operating leases for office space with terms of more than one year and contractual sublease income were as follows: year headquarters lease (1) other operating leases sublease income total lease commitments (net of sublease income) (in millions) 2019 9 $ 19 $ ( 3 ) $ 25 2020 9 18 ( 2 ) 25 2021 10 16 ( 2 ) 24 2022 10 16 ( 2 ) 24 2023 10 9 19 thereafter 67 9 76 total $ 115 $ 87 $ ( 9 ) $ 193 (1) amount includes an $ 83 million financing obligation in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2018, related to the headquarters lease. as of december 31, 2019, we did not have any additional operating or finance leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations for us. note 3: acquisitions and other investments during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, we acquired businesses which were accounted for as purchases of businesses under the acquisition method, or gaap. we had no business acquisitions during the year ended december 31, 2017. the fair value of purchase consideration has been allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date, with the remaining amount recorded to goodwill. acquired goodwill represents the premium we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. we paid a premium in each of these transactions for a number of reasons, including expected operational synergies, the assembled workforces, and the future development initiatives of the assembled workforces. the results of each of these acquired businesses have been included in the consolidated financial statements beginning on the respective acquisition dates. pro-forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented as the financial impact to our consolidated financial statements, both individually and in aggregate, would not be materially different from historical results. for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, acquisition-related costs which were expensed as incurred, were $ 2 million and not material, respectively, and are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. 2019 acquisition of businesses and other investments during the year ended december 31, 2019, we completed three acquisitions of businesses under gaap with a total purchase price consideration of $ 110 million for 100 % ownership of the following: (1) singleplatform, a leading online content management and syndication platform company based in the u.s. acquired in december 2019 , (2) bookatable, an online restaurant reservation and booking platform company based in the u.k. acquired in december 2019 and (3) restorando, an online restaurant reservation and booking platform company based in argentina acquired in february 2019 . we paid cash consideration of $ 108 million, net of $ 2 million of cash acquired. the cash consideration was paid from our u.s. and european cash. the aggregate purchase price consideration was allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. the purchase price allocation of our 2019 acquisitions is preliminary and subject to revision as more information becomes available, primarily related to the estimated values of bookatable intangible assets, but in any case will not be revised beyond twelve months after the acquisition date. any change to the fair value of assets 85 acquired or liabilities assumed will lead to a corresponding change to the purchase price allocable to goodwill in the period the adjustment is determined. the following summarizes the preliminary allocation, in millions: total goodwill (1) $ 85 intangible assets (2) 26 net tangible assets (liabilities) (3) ( 1 ) total purchase price consideration (4) $ 110 (1) goodwill of $ 50 million is not deductible for tax purposes. (2) preliminary identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2019 were comprised of trade names of $ 2 million with a weighted average life of 2 years, customer lists and supplier relationships of $ 10 million with a weighted average life of 8 years, subscriber relationships of $ 6 million with a weighted average life of approximately 3 years, and technology and other of $ 8 million with a weighted average life of approximately 6 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of these businesses during 2019 was 6 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) primarily includes cash acquired of $ 2 million, accounts receivable of $ 3 million, prepaid expenses and other current assets of $ 2 million and liabilities assumed of $ 8 million, including accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and deferred revenue, which reflect their respective fair values at acquisition. (4) subject to adjustment based on (i) final working capital adjustment calculations and (ii) indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of certain acquired company stockholders. during the year ended december 31, 2019, we also invested $ 2 million in the equity securities of a privately-held company. refer to note 7: financial instruments and fair value measurements for further disclosure on our non-marketable investments. 2018 acquisition of business during the year ended december 31, 2018, we acquired one business for a purchase price and net cash consideration of $ 23 million. the cash consideration was paid from our u.s. cash. the purchase price consideration of $ 23 million was allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. the following summarizes the final purchase price allocation, in millions: total goodwill (1) $ 11 intangible assets (2) 14 deferred tax liabilities, net ( 2 ) total purchase price consideration (3) $ 23 (1) goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. (2) identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2018 were comprised of supplier relationships of $ 6 million with a weighted average life of 10 years and technology and other of $ 8 million with a weighted average life of approximately 6 years. the overall weighted-average life of the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets acquired in the purchase of this business during 2018 was 8 years, and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives from acquisition date. (3) subject to adjustment based on indemnification obligations for general representations and warranties of certain acquired company stockholders. 86 note 4: revenue recognition we generate all of our revenue from contracts with customers. we recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of the promised services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those services. when we act as an agent in the transaction, we recognize revenue for only our commission on the arrangement. we determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract (3) determination of the transaction price (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation. at contract inception, we assess the services promised in our contracts with customers and identify a performance obligation for each promise to transfer to the customer a service (or bundle of services) that is distinct. to identify the performance obligations, we consider all of the services promised in the contract regardless of whether they are explicitly stated or are implied by customary business practices. we have provided qualitative information about our performance obligations for our principal revenue streams discussed below. there was no significant revenue recognized in the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 related to performance obligations satisfied in prior periods, respectively. we have applied a practical expedient and do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations that have an original expected duration of less than one year, and we do not have any material unsatisfied performance obligations over one year. the value related to our remaining or partially satisfied performance obligations relates to subscription services that are satisfied over time or services that are recognized at a point in time, but not yet achieved. our timing of services, invoicing and payments are discussed in more detail below and do not include a significant financing component. our customer invoices are generally due 30 days from the time of invoicing. we recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year. although the substantial majority of our contract costs have an amortization period of less than one year , we have determined contract costs arising from certain sales incentives have an amortization period in excess of one year given the high likelihood of contract renewal. sales incentives are not paid upon renewal of these contracts and therefore are not commensurate with the initial sales incentive costs. total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were approximately $ 4 million and $ 2 million as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. we amortize these contract costs on a straight-line basis over the estimated customer life, which is based on historical customer retention rates . amortization expense recorded to selling and marketing during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were $ 1 million and not material. we assess such assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. the recognition of revenue may require the application of judgment related to the determination of the performance obligations, the timing of when the performance obligations are satisfied and other areas. the determination of our performance obligations does not require significant judgment given that we generally do not provide multiple services to a customer in a transaction, and the point in which control is transferred to the customer is readily determinable. in instances where we recognize revenue over time, we generally have either a subscription service that is recognized over time on a straight-line basis using the time-elapsed output method, or based on other output measures that provide a faithful depiction of the transfer of our services. when an estimate for cancellations is included in the transaction price, we base our estimate on historical cancellation rates. there have been no significant adjustments to our cancellation estimates and the cancellation estimates are not material. taxes assessed by a government authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue producing transaction, that are collected by us from a customer, are reported on a net basis, or in other words excluded from revenue on our consolidated financial statements, which is consistent with prior periods. the application of our revenue recognition policies and a description of our principal activities, organized by segment, from which we generate our revenue, are presented below. 87 hotels, media platform segment tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue . our largest source of hotels, media platform segment revenue is generated from click-based advertising on tripadvisor-branded websites, which is primarily comprised of contextually-relevant booking links to our travel partners' websites. our click-based travel partners are predominantly otas and direct suppliers in the hotel category. click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or cpc , basis, with payments from travel partners determined by the number of travelers who click on a link multiplied by the cpc rate for each specific click. cpc rates are determined in a dynamic, competitive auction process, also known as our hotel metasearch auction, where our travel partner cpc bids for rates and availability to be listed on our site are submitted. when a cpc bid is submitted, the partner agrees to pay us the bid amount each time a traveler clicks on the link to that partner's websites. bids can be submitted periodically as often as daily on a property-by-property basis. we record click-based advertising revenue as the click occurs and traveler leads are sent to the travel partner websites as our performance obligation is fulfilled at that time. click-based revenue is generally billed to our travel partners on a monthly basis consistent with the timing of the service. in addition, we offer subscription-based advertising to hotel partners, owners of b bs and other specialty lodging properties. our performance obligation is generally to enable subscribers to advertise their businesses on our website, as well as manage and promote their website url, email address, phone number, special offers and other information related to their business. subscription-based advertising services are predominantly sold for a flat fee for a contracted period of time of one year or less and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of the subscription service as efforts are expended evenly throughout the contract period. subscription-based advertising services are generally billed at the inception of the service. when prepayments are received, we recognize deferred revenue for the amount of prepayment in excess of revenue recognized until the performance obligation is satisfied. we also offer travel partners the opportunity to advertise and promote their business through hotel sponsored placements on our websites. this service is generally priced on a cpc basis, with payments from travel partners determined by the number of travelers who click on the sponsored link multiplied by the cpc rate for each specific click. cpc rates for hotel sponsored placements that our travel partners pay are based on a pre-determined contractual rate. we record this click-based advertising revenue as the click occurs and traveler leads are sent to the travel partner as our performance obligation is fulfilled at that time. hotel sponsored placements revenue is generally billed to our travel partners on a monthly basis consistent with the timing of the service. to a lesser extent, we generate transaction revenue from our hotel instant booking feature, which enables hotel shoppers to book directly with a travel partner, with the latter serving as the merchant of record for the transaction, without leaving our website. we earn a commission from our travel partners for each traveler that completes a hotel reservation on our website based on a pre-determined contractual commission rate. our hotel instant booking revenue includes (i) arrangements where commissions are billable on all instant booking hotel reservations and (ii) arrangements where the commissions are billable only upon the completion of each traveler's stay resulting from the reservation. the travel partners provide the service to the travelers and we act as an agent under asc 606. our performance obligation in both arrangements is complete at the time of the booking and the commission earned is recognized upon booking, as we have no post-booking service obligations. the amount of revenue recognized for commissions that are billable contingent upon a traveler stay requires an estimate of the impact of cancellations using historical cancellation rates. contract assets are recognized at the time of booking for commissions that are billable at the time of stay. tripadvisor-branded display and platform revenue . we offer travel partners the ability to promote their brands through display-based advertising placements on our websites across all of our segments and business units. our display-based advertising clients are predominantly direct suppliers of hotels, airlines and cruises, as well as destination marketing organizations. we also sell display-based advertising to otas and other travel related businesses, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or cpm, basis. the performance obligation in our display-based advertising arrangements is to display a number of advertising impressions on our websites and we recognize revenue for impressions as they are delivered. services are generally billed monthly. we have applied the practical expedient to measure progress toward completion, as we have the right to invoice the customer in an amount that directly 88 corresponds with the value to the customer of our performance to date, which is measured based on impressions delivered. experiences dining segment we provide information and services that allow consumers to research and book activities and attractions in popular travel destinations both through viator, our dedicated experiences offering, and on our tripadvisor website and mobile apps. we also power travel activities and experiences booking capabilities to consumers on affiliate partner websites, including some of the world's top airlines, hotel chains, and online and offline travel agencies. we work with local tour or travel activities/experiences operators ( the supplier ) to provide consumers the ability to book tours, activities and experiences ( the activity ) in popular destinations worldwide. we generate commissions for each booking transaction we facilitate through our online reservation system. we provide post-booking service to the customer until the time of the activity, which is the completion of the performance obligation. revenue is recognized at the time that the activity occurs. we generally do not control the activity before the supplier provides it to our customer and therefore act as agent for nearly all of these transactions under asc 606. we generally collect payment from the customer at the time of booking that includes both our commission revenue and the amount due to the supplier. our commission revenue is recorded as deferred revenue until the activity occurs and revenue is recognized, and the amount due to the supplier is recorded as deferred merchant payables on our consolidated balance sheet until completion of the activity and payment is made to the supplier. to a lesser extent, we earn commissions from affiliate partners, or third-party merchant partners who display and promote on their websites the supplier activities available on our platform to generate bookings. in these transactions, where we are not the merchant of record, we generally invoice and receive commissions directly from the third-party merchant partners. our performance obligation is to allow the third-party merchant partners to display and promote on their website suppliers who utilize our platform and we earn a commission when consumers book and complete an activity. we do not control the service and act as an agent for these transactions under asc 606. our performance obligation is complete and revenue is recognized at the time of the booking, as we have no post-booking obligations. we recognize this revenue net of an estimate of the impact of cancellations using historical cancellation rates. contract assets are recognized for commissions that are billable contingent upon completion of the activity. we also provide information and services for consumers to research and book restaurants in popular travel destinations through our dedicated restaurant reservations offering, thefork, and on our tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. thefork is an online restaurant booking platform operating on a number of websites (including www.thefork.com, www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.restorando.com and www.bookatable.co.uk ), with a network of restaurant partners located primarily across the u.k., europe, australia, and south america. we primarily generate transaction fees (or per seated diner fees) that are paid by restaurants for diners seated primarily from bookings through thefork's online reservation system. the transaction fee is recognized as revenue after the reservation is fulfilled, or as diners are seated by our restaurant customers. we invoice restaurants monthly for transaction fees. to a lesser extent, we also generate subscription fees for subscription-based advertising to restaurants, access to certain online reservation management services, marketing analytic tools, and menu syndication services provided by thefork and tripadvisor. as the performance obligation is to provide restaurants with access to these services over the subscription period, subscription fee revenue is recognized over the period of the subscription service on a straight-line basis as efforts are expended evenly throughout the contract period. subscription fees are generally billable in advance of service. when prepayments are received, we recognize deferred revenue for the amount of prepayment in excess of revenue recognized until the performance obligation is satisfied. in addition, we also offer restaurant partners the opportunity to advertise and promote their business through restaurant media advertising placements on our website. this service is generally priced on a cpc basis, with payments from restaurant partners determined by the number of users who click on the sponsored link multiplied by the cpc rate for each specific click. cpc rates for media advertising placements that our restaurant partners pay are based on a pre-determined contractual rate. we record this click-based advertising revenue as the click occurs and diner leads are sent to the restaurant partner as our performance obligation is fulfilled at that time. click-based revenue is generally billed to our restaurant partners on a monthly basis consistent with the timing of the service. 89 other we provide information and services that allow travelers to research and book vacation and short-term rental properties, including full homes, condominiums, villas, beach properties, cabins and cottages. our rentals offering generates revenue primarily by offering individual property owners and managers the ability to list their properties on our websites and mobile apps thereby connecting with travelers through a free-to-list, commission-based option or, to a lesser extent, by an annual subscription-based fee structure. these properties are listed on www.flipkey.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com, www.niumba.com, and www.vacationhomerentals.com, and on our tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. we earn commissions associated with rental transactions through our free-to-list model from both the traveler, and the property owner or manager. we provide post-booking service to the travelers, property owners and managers until the time the rental commences, which is the time the performance obligation is completed. revenue from transaction fees is recognized at the time that the rental commences. we act as an agent, under asc 606, in the transactions as we do not control any properties before the property owner provides the accommodation to the traveler and do not have inventory risk. we generally collect from the traveler at the time of booking payment representing the amount due to the property owner or manager, as well as our commission. that portion of the payment representing our commission is recorded as deferred revenue until revenue is recognized, and that portion of the payment representing the amount due to the property owner is recorded as deferred merchant payables until payment is made to the property owner after the completion of the rental. payments for term-based subscription fees related to online advertising services for the listing of rental properties are generally due in advance. as the performance obligation is the listing service provided to the property owner or manager over the subscription period, revenue is recognized over the period of the subscription service on a straight-line basis as efforts are expended evenly throughout the contract period. we recognize deferred revenue for the amount of prepayment in excess of revenue recognized until the performance obligation is satisfied. in addition, other also includes revenue generated from flights, cruises, and car offerings on tripadvisor, as well as revenue from non-tripadvisor-branded websites not otherwise described above, such as www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.onetime.com and www.smartertravel.com, and tripadvisor china, which primarily includes click-based advertising and display-based advertising revenue. the performance obligations, timing of customer payments for these brands, and methods of revenue recognition are generally consistent with click-based advertising and display-based advertising revenue, as described above. practical expedients and exemptions we expense costs to obtain a contract as incurred, such as sales incentives, when the amortization period would have been one year or less. we do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed. disaggregation of revenue we disaggregate revenue from contracts with customers into major products/revenue sources. we have determined that disaggregating revenue into these categories achieves the disclosure objective to depict how the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors. as noted in note 18: segment and geographic information , our business consists of two reportable segments (1) hotels, media platform and (2) experiences dining . a reconciliation of disaggregated revenue to segment revenue is also included below. 90 year ended december 31, 2019 2018 major products/revenue sources (1): (in millions) hotels, media platform tripadvisor-branded hotels $ 779 $ 848 tripadvisor-branded display and platform 160 153 total hotels, media platform 939 1,001 experiences dining 456 372 other (2) 165 242 total revenue $ 1,560 $ 1,615 (1) our revenue is recognized primarily at a point in time for all reported segments . (2) other consists of the combination of our rentals, flights/cruises/car, smartertravel and tripadvisor china business units and does not constitute a reportable segment contract balances the following table provides information about the opening and closing balances of accounts receivables and contract assets from contracts with customers (in millions): december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 accounts receivable $ 176 $ 205 contract assets 7 7 total $ 183 $ 212 accounts receivable are recognized when the right to consideration becomes unconditional. contract assets are rights to consideration in exchange for services that we have transferred to a customer when that right is conditional on something other than the passage of time, such as commission payments that are contingent upon the completion of the service by the principal in the transaction. contract liabilities generally include payments received in advance of performance under the contract, and are realized as revenue as the performance obligation to the customer is satisfied, which we present as deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. as of january 1, 2019 and 2018, we had $ 63 million and $ 59 million, respectively, recorded as deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheet, of which $ 61 million and $ 57 million, respectively, was recognized in revenue and $ 2 million was refunded due to cancellations by travelers during both years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018. the difference between the opening and closing balances of our deferred revenue primarily results from the timing differences between when we receive customer payments and the time in which we satisfy our performance obligations. the difference between the opening and closing balances of our contract assets primarily results from the timing difference between when we satisfy our performance obligations and the time when the principal completes the service in the transaction. there were no significant changes in contract assets or deferred revenue during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 related to business combinations, impairments, cumulative catch-ups or other material adjustments. note 5: earnings per share basic earnings per share attributable to common stockholders we compute basic earnings per share, or basic eps, by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. we compute the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period using the total of common stock and class b common stock outstanding as of the last day of the previous year end reporting period plus the weighted average of any additional shares issued and outstanding less the weighted average of any common shares repurchased during the reporting period. 91 diluted earnings per share attributable to common stockholders diluted earnings per share, or diluted eps, includes the potential dilution of common equivalent shares outstanding that could occur from stock-based awards and other stock-based commitments using the treasury stock method. we compute diluted eps by dividing net income (loss) by the sum of the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. we computed the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period using the sum of (i) the number of shares of common stock and class b common stock used in the basic eps calculation as indicated above, and (ii) if dilutive, the incremental weighted average common stock that we would issue upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common equivalent shares, primarily related to stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units using the treasury stock method, and (iii) if dilutive, performance-based and market-based awards based on the number of shares that would be issuable as of the end of the reporting period assuming the end of the reporting period was also the end of the contingency period. under the treasury stock method, the assumed proceeds calculation includes the actual proceeds to be received from the employee upon exercise of outstanding equity awards and the average unrecognized compensation cost during the period. the treasury stock method assumes that a company uses the proceeds from the exercise of an equity award to repurchase common stock at the average market price for the reporting period. in periods of a net loss, common equivalent shares are excluded from the calculation of diluted eps as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. accordingly, for periods in which we report a net loss, diluted eps is the same as basic eps, since dilutive common equivalent shares are not assumed to have been issued if their effect is anti-dilutive. below is a reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding in calculating diluted eps (shares in thousands and dollars in millions, except per share amounts) for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 numerator: net income (loss) $ 126 $ 113 $ ( 19 ) denominator: weighted average shares used to compute basic eps 138,975 138,116 140,445 weighted average effect of dilutive securities: stock options 155 351 rsus/msus 1,528 1,908 weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps 140,658 140,375 140,445 basic eps $ 0.91 $ 0.82 $ ( 0.14 ) diluted eps $ 0.89 $ 0.81 $ ( 0.14 ) potential common shares, consisting of outstanding stock options, service and performance-based restricted stock units ( rsus ) and market-based restricted stock units ( msus ), totaling approximately 6.7 million, 6.2 million, and 12.5 million, for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, have been excluded from the calculations of diluted eps because their effect would have been antidilutive. in addition, potential common shares of certain performance-based awards of approximately 0.7 million, 0.5 million, and 0.6 million, for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, for which all targets required to trigger vesting had not been achieved, were excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares used to compute diluted eps for those reporting periods. the earnings per share amounts are the same for common stock and class b common stock because the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share distributions whether through dividends or in liquidation. in addition, our non-vested rsus are entitled to dividend equivalents, which will be payable to the holder subject to, 92 and upon vesting of, the underlying awards and are therefore forfeitable. given such dividend equivalents are forfeitable, we do not consider them to be participating securities and, consequently, they are not subject to the two class method of determining earnings per share. note 6: stock based awards and other equity instruments stock-based compensation expense the following table presents the amount of stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards, primarily stock options and rsus, on our consolidated statements of operations during the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) cost of revenue $ 1 $ 1 $ selling and marketing 23 21 21 technology and content 55 51 40 general and administrative 45 45 35 total stock-based compensation expense 124 118 96 income tax benefit from stock-based compensation expense ( 28 ) ( 27 ) ( 28 ) total stock-based compensation expense, net of tax effect $ 96 $ 91 $ 68 we capitalized $ 19 million, $ 13 million and $ 13 million of stock-based compensation expense as internal-use software and website development costs during the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. stock and incentive plans on december 20, 2011, our 2011 stock and annual incentive plan (the 2011 plan ) became effective and we filed a to registration statement registering a total of 17,500,000 shares of our common stock, of which 17,400,000 shares were issuable in connection with grants of equity-based awards under our 2011 plan and 100,000 shares were issuable under our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (refer to note 15: employee benefit plans for information on our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors). at our annual meeting of stockholders held on june 28, 2013, our stockholders approved an amendment to our 2011 plan to, among other things, increase the aggregate number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance thereunder by 15,000,000 shares. on june 21, 2018, our stockholders approved the 2018 stock and annual incentive plan (the 2018 plan ) and we filed a registration statement registering 6,000,000 shares plus the number of shares available for issuance (and not subject to outstanding awards) under the 2011 plan. a of the effective date of the 2018 plan, no additional awards will be granted under the 2011 plan. the 2018 plan provides for the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and other stock-based awards to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. the summary of the material terms of the 2018 plan is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the 2018 plan previously filed. as of december 31, 2019, the total number of shares reserved for future stock-based awards under the 2018 plan is approximately 10.1 million shares. all shares of common stock issued in respect of the exercise of options, rsus, or other equity awards have been issued from authorized, but unissued common stock. 93 stock based award activity and valuation stock option activity a summary of our stock option activity, consisting primarily of service-based non-qualified stock options, is presented below: weighted weighted average average exercise remaining aggregate options price per contractual intrinsic outstanding share life value (in thousands) (in years) (in millions) options outstanding as of december 31, 2016 5,818 $ 57.60 granted (1) 2,333 40.03 exercised (2) ( 496 ) 29.37 cancelled or expired ( 802 ) 65.13 options outstanding as of december 31, 2017 6,853 52.78 granted 762 43.53 exercised (2) ( 1,162 ) 37.26 cancelled or expired ( 412 ) 61.46 options outstanding as of december 31, 2018 6,041 54.00 granted 752 48.30 exercised (2) ( 195 ) 42.17 cancelled or expired ( 581 ) 56.97 options outstanding as of december 31, 2019 6,017 $ 50.27 5.9 $ exercisable as of december 31, 2019 3,425 $ 57.27 4.2 $ vested and expected to vest after december 31, 2019 (3) 6,017 $ 50.27 5.9 $ (1) inclusive of 780,000 stock options awarded to our chief executive officer and president, or ceo, during november 2017. the estimated grant-date fair value per option, using a black-scholes option pricing model was $ 17.33 . these stock options shall vest in equal installments on each of august 1, 2021 and august 1, 2022, subject to the ceo's continuous employment with, or performance of services for, the company. the estimated grant-date fair value of this award will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period through august 1, 2022 . (2) inclusive of 120,112 , 814,635 , and 294,410 stock options as of december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which were not converted into shares due to net share settlement in order to cover the aggregate exercise price and the required amount of employee withholding taxes. potential shares which had been convertible under stock options that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2018 plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. (3) the company accounts for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures as allowed under gaap and therefore do not include a forfeiture rate in our vested and expected to vest calculation unless necessary for a performance condition award. aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the closing stock price of our common stock and the exercise price of outstanding, in-the-money options. our closing stock price as reported on nasdaq as of december 31, 2019 was $ 30.38 . the total intrinsic value of stock options exercised for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were $ 2 million, $ 20 million, and $ 8 million, respectively. 94 the fair value of stock option grants has been estimated at the date of grant using the black scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for the periods presented: december 31, 2019 2018 2017 risk free interest rate 1.79 % 2.70 % 2.02 % expected term (in years) 5.19 5.45 6.13 expected volatility 42.09 % 41.86 % 42.14 % expected dividend yield % % % weighted-average grant date fair value $ 21.25 $ 18.11 $ 16.50 the total fair value of stock options vested for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were $ 15 million, $ 38 million, and $ 40 million, respectively. cash received from stock option exercises for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were $ 2 million, $ 6 million, and $ 3 million, respectively. on june 5, 2017, the section 16 committee of our board of directors approved an amendment to the nonqualified stock option award (the option ) granted on august 28, 2013 to stephen kaufer, the company's ceo. the amendment provided that the option will expire on the tenth anniversary, instead of the seventh anniversary, of the grant date. vesting conditions under the option were not affected by this amendment. as a result of the modification, incremental fair value of $ 5 million was recognized to stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining vesting term, or through august 2018, in general and administrative expense on the consolidated statement of operations. rsu activity a summary of our rsu activity is presented below: weighted average grant- aggregate rsus date fair intrinsic outstanding value per share value (in thousands) (in millions) unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2016 2,856 $ 69.35 granted (1)(2) 4,829 41.58 vested and released (3) ( 1,030 ) 67.25 cancelled ( 853 ) 52.64 unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2017 5,802 48.81 granted 3,302 43.04 vested and released (3) ( 1,617 ) 54.22 cancelled ( 847 ) 46.43 unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2018 6,640 44.93 granted (4) 4,688 47.35 vested and released (3) ( 2,002 ) 48.11 cancelled ( 857 ) 47.19 unvested rsus outstanding as of december 31, 2019 (5) 8,469 $ 45.42 $ 258 ( 1 ) inclusive of 426,000 service-based rsus awarded to our ceo during november 2017. the service-based rsu award provides for vesting in two equal annual installments on each of august 1, 2021 and august 1, 2022, subject to the ceo's continuous employment with, or performance of services for, the company. the estimated grant-date fair value per rsu, based on the quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant, was $ 34.71 . the estimated grant-date fair value of this award will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period through august 1, 2022 . ( 2 ) excludes from the 2017 rsu grants, a performance-based rsu grant for 213,000 shares awarded to our ceo during november 2017. this award provides for vesting based on the extent to which the company achieves 95 certain financial and/or the ceo achieves certain strategic performance metrics relative to the targets to be established by the company's compensation committee. one quarter of these rsus may vest and settle annually based on actual performance relative to the targets established annually for each of the four fiscal years ending december 31, 2018, december 31, 2019, december 31, 2020, and december 31, 2021, of which 60,582 rsus vested and settled during the year ending december 31, 2019 related to the achievement of 2018 annual performance targets. the estimated grant-date fair value per rsu will be calculated upon the establishment of annual performance targets and each tranche will be amortized on a straight-line basis over its requisite service period. at any point in time during the vesting period, the award's expense to date will at least equal the portion of the grant-date fair value that is expected to vest at that date. based upon actual attainment relative to the target performance metrics, the ceo has the ability to receive up to 125 % of the target number originally granted, or to be issued none at all . (3) inclusive of 532,164 , 424,848 , and 301,932 rsus as of december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, withheld due to net share settlement to satisfy required employee tax withholding requirements. potential shares which had been convertible under rsus that were withheld under net share settlement remain in the authorized but unissued pool under the 2018 plan and can be reissued by the company. total payments for the employees' tax obligations to the taxing authorities due to net share settlements are reflected as a financing activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows. (4) inclusive of 843,426 dividend equivalents issued to employees holding non-vested rsu grant awards in conjunction with our special cash dividend declared on november 1, 2019, which will be payable to the holder subject to, and upon vesting of, the underlying awards . (5) the company accounts for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures as allowed under gaap and therefore do not include a forfeiture rate in our vested and expected to vest calculation unless necessary for a performance condition award. a summary of our rsu activity for msus is presented below: weighted average grant- aggregate msus date fair intrinsic outstanding value per share value (in thousands) (in millions) unvested msus outstanding as of december 31, 2017 (1) 213 $ 30.04 granted (2) 71 59.40 vested and released cancelled unvested msus outstanding as of december 31, 2018 284 37.41 granted (3)(4) 121 51.76 vested and released cancelled ( 16 ) 58.63 unvested msus outstanding as of december 31, 2019 389 $ 40.99 $ 12 (1) represents 213,000 market-based rsu or msus awarded to the company's ceo in november 2017. the msu award provides for vesting based upon the company's total shareholder return, or tsr, performance over the period commencing january 1, 2018 through december 31, 2020 relative to the tsr performance of the nasdaq composite total return index. based upon actual attainment relative to the target performance metric, the ceo has the ability to receive up to 125 % of the target number of msus originally granted, or to be issued none at all. (2) msus provide for vesting based upon the company's total shareholder return, or tsr, performance over the period commencing january 1, 2018 through december 31, 2020 relative to the tsr performance of the nasdaq composite total return index. based upon actual attainment relative to the target performance metric, the grantee has the ability to receive up to 200 % of the target number of msus originally granted, or to be issued none at all. these msus were granted under the 2011 plan. (3) inclusive of 78,050 msus which provide for vesting based upon the company's total shareholder return, or tsr, performance over the period commencing january 1, 2019 through december 31, 2021 relative to the tsr performance of the nasdaq composite total return index. based upon actual attainment relative to the 96 target performance metric, the grantee has the ability to receive up to 200 % of the target number of msus originally granted, or to be issued none at all. these msus were granted under the 2018 plan. (4) inclusive of 42,477 dividend equivalents issued to employees holding non-vested msu grant awards in conjunction with our special cash dividend declared on november 1, 2019, which will be payable to the holder subject to, and upon vesting of, the underlying awards . a monte-carlo simulation model, which simulated the present value of the potential outcomes of future stock prices and tsr of the company and the nasdaq composite total return index over the performance period, was used to calculate the grant-date fair value of our msu awards. the estimated grant-date fair value of these awards is being amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. unrecognized stock-based compensation a summary of our remaining unrecognized compensation expense and the weighted average remaining amortization period at december 31, 2019 related to our non-vested equity awards is presented below (in millions, except in years information): stock options rsus/msus unrecognized compensation expense $ 32 $ 248 weighted average period remaining (in years) 2.6 2.5 note 7: financial instruments and fair value measurements marketable securities the following table shows our marketable securities, by consolidated balance sheet classification and major security type, that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and were categorized using the fair value hierarchy, as well as their classification on our consolidated balance sheet, as of the periods presented (in millions): december 31, 2018 total amortized total fair cash and cash short-term marketable cost value (1) equivalents securities level 1: money market funds $ 128 $ 128 $ 128 level 2: commercial paper 20 20 5 15 total $ 148 $ 148 $ 133 $ 15 (1) as of december 31, 2018, any unrealized gains or losses related to our marketable securities were not material. we had no outstanding marketable securities as of december 31, 2019. our cash equivalents consist of money market funds and other marketable securities, with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase. our short-term marketable securities include maturities that were greater than 90 days at the date purchased and had 12 months or less remaining at december 31, 2018. we classify our marketable securities within level 1 and level 2 as we value these financial instruments using quoted market prices (level 1) or alternative pricing sources (level 2). the valuation technique we used to measure the fair value of money market funds was derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. fair values for level 2 marketable securities are considered level 2 valuations because they are obtained from independent pricing sources for identical or comparable instruments, rather than direct observations of quoted prices in active markets. our procedures include controls to ensure that appropriate fair values are 97 recorded, including comparing the fair values obtained from our independent pricing services against fair values obtained from another independent source. there were no material realized gains or losses related to sales of our marketable securities for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. non-marketable investments equity securities accounted for under the equity method in november 2019, the company and ctrip investment holding ltd, a majority-owned subsidiary of trip.com group limited, entered into an agreement to combine certain assets in china through the creation of a new entity, chelsea investment holding company pte, ltd. tripadvisor contributed a portion of its business in china, to chelsea investment holding company pte, ltd, including a long-term exclusive brand and content license and other assets, in return for a 40 % equity ownership interest in chelsea investment holding company pte, ltd. this investment resulted in the company recording an initial equity method investment of $ 41 million, included in non-marketable investments on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2019, and a $ 39 million deferred income liability attributable to the brand and content license, included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet of $ 3 million and $ 36 million, respectively as of december 31, 2019. the company expects to earn the deferred income ratably over a 15 -year period, congruent with the initial term of the brand and content license, presented in other income (expense), net on the consolidated statement of operations. the investment is being accounted for as an equity method investment as the company determined it has the ability to exercise significant influence over the investee. investments in privately-held companies we hold investments in equity securities of privately-held companies, which are typically at an early stage of development and do not have a readily determinable fair value. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, the total carrying value of these investments was $ 14 million and $ 12 million, respectively, and included in non-marketable investments on our consolidated balance sheet. our policy is to measure these investments at cost less impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer such observable price changes may include instances where the investee issues equity securities to new investors, thus creating a new indicator of fair value, as an example. on a quarterly basis, we perform a qualitative assessment considering impairment indicators to evaluate whether these investments are impaired and also monitor for any observable price changes. the company determined that no changes were required to the carrying value of these equity investments at december 31, 2019 and 2018 and recognized a loss of $ 2 million related to an equity investment during the year ended december 31, 2017 in other income (expense), net on our consolidated statements of operations. derivative financial instruments we generally use forward contracts to reduce the effects of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our cash flows primarily for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. for the periods ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, our forward contracts have not been designated as hedges and generally had maturities of less than 90 days. our outstanding or unsettled forward contracts are carried at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2019 and 2018. we measure the fair value of our outstanding or unsettled derivatives using level 2 fair value inputs, as we use a pricing model that takes into account the contract terms as well as current foreign currency exchange rates in active markets. we recognize any gain or loss resulting from the change in fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts in other income (expense), net on our consolidated statement of operations. we recorded a net gain of $ 1 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, a net loss of $ 3 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, and was not material for the year ended december 31, 2017, respectively, related to our forward contracts. 98 the following table shows the notional principal amounts of our outstanding derivative instruments for the periods presented: december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 (in millions) foreign currency exchange-forward contracts (1)(2) $ 10 $ 13 (1) derivative contracts address foreign currency exchange fluctuations for the euro versus the u.s. dollar. the company had one and two outstanding derivative contracts as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. these outstanding derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments. (2) the fair value of our outstanding derivatives as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, was not material and was reported as a liability in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. other financial instruments other financial instruments not measured at fair value on a recurring basis include accounts receivable and contract assets, accounts payable, deferred merchant payables, short-term debt, accrued expenses and other current liabilities. the carrying amount of these financial instruments approximate their fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments as reported on our consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018, respectively. the company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using level 3 unobservable inputs at both december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018. note 8: property and equipment, net property and equipment, net consists of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 (in millions) capitalized software and website development $ 335 $ 259 building (1) 123 finance lease right-of-use asset (1) 114 leasehold improvements 49 41 computer equipment and purchased software 70 52 furniture, office equipment and other 21 18 589 493 less: accumulated depreciation ( 319 ) ( 240 ) total $ 270 $ 253 (1) refer to note 2: significant accounting policies , regarding the transition accounting related to our adoption of asc 842 and the subsequent accounting for our headquarter lease. as of december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018, the carrying value of our capitalized software and website development costs, net of accumulated amortization, was $ 115 million and $ 99 million, respectively. for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we capitalized $ 79 million, $ 63 million and $ 65 million, respectively, related to software and website development costs. for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded amortization of capitalized software and website development costs of $ 63 million, $ 59 million and $ 54 million, respectively, which is included in depreciation expense on our consolidated statements of operations for those years. 99 note 9: goodwill and intangible assets, net the following table summarizes our goodwill activity by reportable segment for the periods presented: hotel non-hotel hotels, media platform experiences dining other (4) total (in millions) (in millions) balance as of december 31, 2017 $ 451 $ 307 $ $ $ $ 758 acquisitions (1) 11 11 other adjustments (2) ( 13 ) ( 13 ) balance as of december 31, 2018 $ 451 $ 305 $ $ $ $ 756 allocation to new segments (3) ( 451 ) ( 305 ) 405 250 101 acquisitions (1) $ 85 $ 85 other adjustments (2) ( 2 ) 1 ( 1 ) balance as of december 31, 2019 $ $ $ 405 $ 333 $ 102 $ 840 (1) the additions to goodwill relate to our business acquisitions. refer to note 3: acquisitions and other investments , for further information. (2) primarily related to impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates to goodwill. (3) refer to note 1: organization and business description for information on our reporting segment changes in the first quarter of 2019. (4) other consists of the combination of our rentals, flights/cruises/car, smartertravel, and tripadvisor china business units and does not constitute a reportable segment. intangible assets, which were acquired in business combinations and recorded at fair value on the date of purchase, consist of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2019 2018 (in millions) intangible assets with definite lives $ 253 $ 228 less: accumulated amortization ( 173 ) ( 140 ) intangible assets with definite lives, net 80 88 intangible assets with indefinite lives 30 30 total $ 110 $ 118 amortization expense for definite-lived intangible assets was $ 33 million, $ 34 million, and $ 32 million, for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. our indefinite-lived intangible assets relate to trade names and trademarks. there were no impairment charges recognized to our consolidated statement of operations during the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 related to our goodwill or intangible assets. 100 the following table presents the components of our intangible assets with definite lives for the periods presented: december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 weighted average gross net gross net remaining life carrying accumulated carrying carrying accumulated carrying (in years) amount amortization amount amount amortization amount (in millions) (in millions) trade names and trademarks 4.5 $ 59 $ ( 35 ) $ 24 $ 57 $ ( 28 ) $ 29 customer lists and supplier relationships 4.4 98 ( 65 ) 33 88 ( 53 ) 35 subscriber relationships 3.3 40 ( 29 ) 11 34 ( 25 ) 9 technology and other 5.1 56 ( 44 ) 12 49 ( 34 ) 15 total 4.4 $ 253 $ ( 173 ) $ 80 $ 228 $ ( 140 ) $ 88 refer to note 3: acquisitions and other investments above for a discussion of definite lived intangible assets acquired in business combinations during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018. our definite-lived intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis. the straight-line method of amortization is currently our best estimate, or approximates to date, the distribution of the economic use of these intangible assets. the estimated amortization expense for intangible assets with definite lives for each of the next five years, and the expense thereafter, assuming no subsequent impairment of the underlying assets or change in estimate of remaining lives, is expected to be as follows (in millions): 2020 $ 26 2021 19 2022 13 2023 9 2024 6 2025 and thereafter 7 total $ 80 note 10: debt 2015 credit facility in june 2015, we entered into a five-year credit agreement with a group of lenders which, among other things, provided for a $ 1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2015 credit facility ) and immediately borrowed $ 290 million. in may 2017, the 2015 credit facility was amended to, among other things, (i) increase the aggregate amount of revolving loan commitments available from $1.0 billion to $ 1.2 billion and (ii) extend the maturity date of the 2015 credit facility from june 26, 2020 to may 12, 2022 (the first amendment ). borrowings under the 2015 credit facility generally bear interest, at the company's option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the eurocurrency borrowing rate, or the adjusted libo rate for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.25 % to 2.00 % ( eurocurrency spread ), based on the company's leverage ratio or (ii) the alternate base rate ( abr ) borrowing, which is the greatest of (a) the prime rate in effect on such day, (b) the new york fed bank rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1.00 % per annum and (c) the adjusted libo rate (or libo rate multiplied by the statutory reserve rate) for an interest period of one month plus 1.00 % in addition to an applicable margin ranging from 0.25 % to 1.00 % ( abr spread ), based on the company's leverage ratio . the company may borrow from the 2015 credit facility in u.s dollars, euros and british pound. during the year ended december 31, 2018, we repaid all of our outstanding borrowings, or approximately $ 230 million, under the 2015 credit facility. this repayment was primarily made from a one-time cash repatriation of $ 325 million of foreign earnings to the united states during the year ended december 31, 2018. during the year 101 ended december 31, 2017, we borrowed $ 435 million and repaid $ 296 million of our outstanding borrowings under the 2015 credit facility. these net borrowings during the year were primarily used to repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock under a share repurchase program, which is described in note 1 6 : stockholders equity . as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, we had no outstanding borrowings and approximately $ 1.2 billion of borrowing capacity available under our 2015 credit facility. we are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee, at an applicable rate ranging from 0.15 % to 0.30 %, on the daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility for each fiscal quarter and additional fees in connection with the issuance of letters of credit. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, our unused revolver capacity was subject to a commitment fee of 0.15 %, given the company's leverage ratio. the 2015 credit facility includes $ 15 million of borrowing capacity available for letters of credit and $ 40 million for swingline borrowings on same-day notice. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, we had issued $ 3 million of outstanding letters of credit under the 2015 credit facility. we recorded total interest expense and commitment fees on our 2015 credit facility of $ 2 million, $ 3 million and $ 6 million for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. all unpaid interest and commitment fee amounts as of december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018, respectively, were not material. we also incurred lender fees and debt financing costs in connection with entering into the 2015 credit facility and in connection with the first amendment totaling $ 5 million, which were capitalized as deferred financing costs and recorded to other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 31, 2019, the company has $ 2 million remaining in deferred financing costs in connection with the 2015 credit facility. these costs are being amortized over the remaining term on a straight line basis and recorded to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. there is no specific repayment date prior to the maturity date for any borrowings under this credit agreement. we may voluntarily repay any outstanding borrowing under the 2015 credit facility at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs with respect to eurocurrency loans. additionally, the company believes that the likelihood of the lender exercising any subjective acceleration rights, which would permit the lenders to accelerate repayment of any outstanding borrowings, is remote. as such, we classify any borrowings under this facility as long-term debt. the 2015 credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur additional indebtedness, create liens, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, engage in mergers or consolidations, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends and distributions, make investments, loans or advances, prepay certain subordinated indebtedness, make certain acquisitions, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, amend material agreements governing certain subordinated indebtedness, and change our fiscal year. the 2015 credit facility also requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default, including a change of control. if an event of default occurs, the lenders under the 2015 credit facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of all amounts due under the 2015 credit facility. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. 2016 credit facility we were party to an uncommitted facility agreement which provided for a $ 73 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2016 credit facility ) with no specific expiration date. we initially borrowed $ 73 million from this uncommitted credit facility during the year ended december 31, 2016, which was used for general working capital needs of the company primarily for partial repayment of our 2015 credit facility, and we subsequently repaid the full amount during the year ended december 31, 2017. the company terminated the 2016 credit facility in june 2018 . we had no outstanding borrowings under the 2016 credit facility at the time of termination. chinese credit facilities we are party to a $ 30 million, one-year revolving credit facility with bank of america (the chinese credit facility boa ) that is currently subject to review on a periodic basis with no specific expiration period. this credit facility generally bears interest at a rate based on the people's bank of china benchmark, including certain adjustments, which may be made in accordance with market conditions at the time of borrowing. as of both december 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility. 102 we were also party to a rmb 70,000,000 (approximately $ 10 million) one-year revolving credit facility with j.p. morgan chase bank ( chinese credit facility-jpm ) through september 2019, when the company did not renew this credit facility. we had no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility at the time of termination or at december 31, 2018. note 11: income taxes the following table presents a summary of our domestic and foreign income before income taxes: year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) domestic $ 92 $ 104 $ 81 foreign 102 69 29 total $ 194 $ 173 $ 110 the following table presents a summary of the components of our provision for income taxes: year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) current income tax expense: federal $ 31 $ 37 $ 93 state 5 12 1 foreign 26 17 6 current income tax expense 62 66 100 deferred income tax expense (benefit): federal 25 ( 10 ) 25 state 7 ( 1 ) 2 foreign ( 26 ) 5 2 deferred income tax expense (benefit): 6 ( 6 ) 29 provision for income taxes $ 68 $ 60 $ 129 the company reduced its current income tax payable by $ 24 million, $ 15 million and $ 27 million for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, for tax deductions attributable to the exercise or settlement of the company's stock-based awards. 103 the significant components of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: december 31, 2019 2018 (in millions) deferred tax assets: stock-based compensation $ 47 $ 44 net operating loss carryforwards 49 38 provision for accrued expenses 6 6 deferred rent 3 lease financing obligation 24 22 foreign advertising spend 15 15 deferred expense related to cost-sharing arrangement - 31 interest carryforward 20 14 other 14 10 total deferred tax assets $ 175 $ 183 less: valuation allowance ( 72 ) ( 57 ) net deferred tax assets $ 103 $ 126 deferred tax liabilities: intangible assets $ ( 51 ) $ ( 57 ) property and equipment ( 27 ) ( 22 ) prepaid expenses ( 2 ) ( 2 ) building - corporate headquarters ( 22 ) ( 23 ) deferred income related to cost-sharing arrangement ( 16 ) other ( 2 ) total deferred tax liabilities $ ( 104 ) $ ( 120 ) net deferred tax asset (liability) $ ( 1 ) $ 6 at december 31, 2019, we had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards ( nols ) of approximately $ 4 million, $ 32 million and $ 201 million, respectively. if not utilized, the federal and state nols will expire at various times between 2020 and 2037 and the foreign nols will expire at various times between 2020 and 2028 . as of december 31, 2019, we had a valuation allowance of approximately of $ 72 million related to certain nol carryforwards and other foreign deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not, the tax benefit will not be realized. this amount represented an increase of $ 15 million, as compared to balance as of december 31, 2018. the increase is primarily related to additional foreign net operating losses. except for certain foreign deferred tax assets, we expect to realize all of our deferred tax assets based on a strong history of earnings in the u.s. and other jurisdictions, as well as future reversals of taxable temporary differences. 104 a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amounts computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income before income taxes is as follows: year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) income tax expense at the federal statutory rate $ 40 $ 36 $ 38 foreign rate differential ( 16 ) ( 17 ) ( 25 ) state income taxes, net of effect of federal tax benefit 9 9 5 unrecognized tax benefits and related interest 11 15 12 change in cost-sharing treatment of stock-based compensation 15 ( 3 ) ( 5 ) fdii, gilti and other provisions ( 3 ) ( 5 ) impacts related to the 2017 tax act 73 research tax credit ( 11 ) ( 9 ) ( 8 ) stock-based compensation 4 8 13 change in valuation allowance 6 9 25 local income tax on intercompany transaction (1) 7 10 executive compensation 3 2 1 other, net 3 5 provision for income taxes $ 68 $ 60 $ 129 (1) during 2018, we completed an intra-entity transfer from australia to the u.s. of certain intangible property ( ip ) rights associated with a subsidiary's technology platform. this transfer resulted in an income tax expense for australian tax purposes of approximately $ 10 million. as a result of the ip transfer, we utilized nols and consequently released the valuation allowance on our australian entity. during 2019, we completed an intra-entity transfer from china to singapore of certain ip. as a result of the transfer, we utilized nols and consequently released the valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets on our china entity. during 2011, the singapore economic development board accepted our application to receive a tax incentive under the international headquarters award. this incentive provides for a reduced tax rate on qualifying income of 5 % as compared to singapore's statutory tax rate of 17 % and is conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. this agreement has been extended until june 30, 2021 as we have met certain employment and investment thresholds. this benefit resulted in a decrease to our 2019 provision for income tax expense of $ 2 million. the 2017 tax act was signed into united states tax law on december 22, 2017. the 2017 tax act significantly changed the u.s. corporate income tax regime by, among other things, lowering the u.s. corporate tax rate from 35 % to 21 % effective january 1, 2018. the 2017 tax act also provided for a mandatory one-time tax on the deemed repatriation of accumulative foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries (the transition tax ), as well as prospective changes beginning in 2018, including additional limitations on executive compensation. under gaap, the effects of changes in income tax rates and laws are recognized in the period in which the new legislation is enacted. we recorded an estimate of $ 67 million of transition tax, and $ 6 million due to a remeasurement of our net deferred tax assets, during the year ended december 31, 2017, which reflected provisional amounts for those specific income tax effects of the 2017 tax act. subsequent adjustments in 2018 were not significant. we are subject to additional requirements of the 2017 tax act during the year ended december 31, 2019. those provisions include a deduction for foreign derived intangible income ( fdii ), a tax on global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ), a limitation of certain executive compensation, and other immaterial provisions. we have elected to account for gilti as a period cost, and therefore included gilti expense in the effective income tax rate calculation. our 2019 effective income tax rate includes our estimates of these new provisions, with a net tax benefit of $ 3 million recorded during the year ended december 31, 2019. our estimates may be revised in future periods as we obtain additional data, and as the irs issues new guidance implementing the law changes. as a result of the 2017 tax act, foreign earnings may now generally be repatriated back to the u.s. without incurring u.s. federal income tax. historically, we have asserted our intention to indefinitely reinvest the cumulative undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. in response to increased cash requirements in the u.s. related to 105 the company's declaration of a special cash dividend and other strategic initiatives during the fourth quarter of 2019, we determined that we no longer consider $ 501 million of these foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested. during the year ended december 31, 2019, we recorded a deferred tax liability of $ 1 million for the u.s. state income tax and foreign withholding tax liabilities on the cumulative undistributed foreign earnings that are not indefinitely reinvested. we intend to indefinitely reinvest $ 118 million of our foreign earnings in our non-us subsidiaries. determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable . for purposes of governing certain of the ongoing relationships between us and expedia at and after the spin-off, and to provide for an orderly transition, we and expedia entered into various agreements at the time of the spin-off, which tripadvisor has satisfied its obligations. however, tripadvisor continues to be subject to certain post spin-off obligations under the tax sharing agreement. under the tax sharing agreement between us and expedia, we are generally required to indemnify expedia for any taxes resulting from the spin-off (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by us described in the covenants in the tax sharing agreement, (ii) any acquisition of our equity securities or assets or those of a member of our group, or (iii) any failure of the representations with respect to us or any member of our group to be true or any breach by us or any member of our group of any covenant, in each case, which is contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel. the full text of the tax sharing agreement is incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k as exhibit 10.2. by virtue of consolidated income tax returns previously filed with expedia, we are currently under an irs audit for the 2009, 2010 and short-period 2011 tax years. we are separately under examination by the irs for the short-period 2011 and 2012-2016 tax years, under an employment tax audit by the irs for the 2013-2016 tax years, and have various ongoing audits for state income tax returns. these audits include questioning of the timing and the amount of income and deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. these examinations may lead to proposed or ordinary course adjustments to our taxes. we are no longer subject to tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2009. as of december 31, 2019, no material assessments have resulted, except as noted below regarding our 2009, 2010, and 2011 irs audit with expedia and our 2012 and 2013 standalone irs audit . in january 2017 and april 2019, as part of the irs audit of expedia, we received notices of proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years. subsequently, in september 2019, as part of tripadvisor's standalone audit, we received notices of proposed adjustment from the irs for the 2012 and 2013 tax years. these proposed adjustments are related to certain transfer pricing arrangements with our foreign subsidiaries, and would result in an increase to our worldwide income tax expense in an estimated range of $ 35 million to $ 40 million at the close of the audit if the irs prevails, after consideration of competent authority relief and transition tax, exclusive of interest and penalties. we disagree with the proposed adjustments and we intend to defend our position through applicable administrative and, if necessary, judicial remedies. our policy is to review and update tax reserves as facts and circumstances change. based on our interpretation of the regulations and available case law, we believe the position we have taken with regard to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries is sustainable. in addition to the risk of additional tax for 2009 through 2013 transactions, if the irs were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, we would be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. in july 2015, the united states tax court (the court ) issued an opinion favorable to altera with respect to altera's litigation with the irs. this opinion was submitted as a final decision under tax court rule 155 during december 2015. the litigation relates to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an inter-company cost-sharing arrangement with altera's foreign subsidiary. in its opinion, the court accepted altera's position of excluding stock-based compensation from its inter-company cost-sharing arrangement. the irs appealed the court decision on february 19, 2016. on june 7, 2019, a three-judge panel from the ninth circuit court of appeals reversed the court's decision and upheld the validity of the treasury regulation (reg. sec. 1.482-7a(d)(2)) requiring stock-based compensation costs to be included in the costs shared in a cost-sharing arrangement. based on this ninth circuit court of appeals decision, we recorded a cumulative income tax expense of $ 15 million during the year ended december 31, 2019, which was a reversal of income tax benefits taken by the company since the court's 2015 opinion. if the june 7, 2019 ninth circuit court of appeals decision is reversed, we would anticipate recording 106 an income tax benefit at that time. in november 2019, the ninth circuit denied altera's request for a rehearing en banc. on february 10 th , 2020, altera filed a certiorari petition with the supreme court, asking it to hear an appeal of the ninth circuit's decision. if the supreme court does not hear the appeal, the ninth circuit's decision will be final. the company will continue to monitor this matter and related potential impacts to its consolidated financial statements . a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits (excluding interest and penalties) is as follows: december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) balance, beginning of year $ 136 $ 123 $ 105 increases to tax positions related to the current year 11 11 17 increases to tax positions related to the prior year 1 2 1 reductions due to lapsed statute of limitations decreases to tax positions related to the prior year ( 8 ) settlements during current year balance, end of year $ 140 $ 136 $ 123 as of december 31, 2019, we had $ 140 million of unrecognized tax benefits, net of interest, which is classified as long-term and included in other long-term liabilities and deferred income taxes, net on our consolidated balance sheet. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce income tax expense by $ 82 million, due to correlative adjustments in other tax jurisdictions. we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense on our consolidated statement of operations. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, total gross interest accrued was $ 29 million and $ 20 million, respectively. we anticipate that the liability for unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by up to $ 12 million within the next twelve months due to the settlement of examinations of issues with tax authorities. note 12: accrued expenses and other current liabilities accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 (in millions) accrued employee salary, bonus, and related benefits $ 74 $ 67 accrued marketing costs 27 31 current income taxes payable (1) 14 7 finance lease liability - current portion (2) 5 operating lease liabilities - current portion (2) 20 other 63 46 total $ 203 $ 151 (1) refer to note 11: income taxes for additional information. (2) refer to note 2: significant accounting policies for further information regarding our leases, including the transition accounting and updated accounting policies upon adoption of asc 842 in 2019 . 107 note 13: other long-term liabilities other long-term liabilities consisted of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 (in millions) unrecognized tax benefits (1) $ 167 $ 148 long-term income taxes payable (2) 31 31 financing obligation, net of current portion (3) 83 finance lease liability, net of current portion (3) 78 operating lease liabilities, net of current portion (3) 64 deferred income liability (4) 36 other 4 20 total $ 380 $ 282 (1) refer to note 11: income taxes for additional information on our unrecognized tax benefits. amount includes accrued interest related to this liability. (2) amount relates to the long-term portion of transition tax related to 2017 tax act. refer to note 11: income taxes , for additional information. (3) refer to note 2: significant accounting policies for further information regarding our leases, including the transition accounting and updated accounting policies upon adoption of asc 842 in 2019. (4) amount relates to long-term portion of a deferred income liability recorded as a result of an equity method investment in the fourth quarter of 2019. refer to note 7: financial instruments and fair value measurements for additional information. note 14: commitments and contingencies as of december 31, 2019, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that include expected commitment fees on our 2015 credit facility and purchase obligations, as summarized in the table below. the expected timing of the payment of the obligations discussed below is estimated based on information available to us as of december 31, 2019. timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years (in millions) purchase obligations and other (1) $ 10 $ 3 $ 4 $ 3 $ expected commitment fee payments on 2015 credit facility (2) 4 2 2 total (3)(4) $ 14 $ 5 $ 6 $ 3 $ (1) estimated purchase obligations that are fixed and determinable, primarily related to telecommunication contracts, with various expiration dates through approximately december 2024. these contracts have non-cancelable terms or are cancelable only upon payment of significant penalty. (2) expected commitment fee payments are based on the daily unused portion of our 2015 credit facility, issued letters of credit, and the effective commitment fee rate as of december 31, 2019 however, these variables could change significantly in the future. refer to note 10: debt for a discussion of the 2015 credit facility with additional information on our available borrowing capacity and effective commitment fee as of december 31, 2019. (3) excluded from the table was $ 3 million of undrawn standby letters of credit, primarily as security deposits for certain property leases as of december 31, 2019. (4) refer to note 2: significant accounting policies for expected future lease payments under existing non-cancelable leases as of december 31, 2019, which are excluded from this table. legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, we are parties to regulatory and legal matters, including threats thereof, arising out of our operations. these matters may involve claims involving patent and intellectual property rights 108 (including alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights), tax matters (including value-added, excise, transient occupancy and accommodation taxes), regulatory compliance (including competition and consumer matters), defamation and other claims. periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. when (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. we provide disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both of these conditions if there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred that would be material to the consolidated financial statements. we base accruals on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, we do not believe that the final disposition of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business. however, the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from our estimates. finally, there may be claims or actions pending or threatened against us of which we are currently not aware and the ultimate disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on us. all legal fees incurred by the company related to any regulatory and legal matters are expensed in the period incurred. income and non-income taxes we are under audit by the irs and various other domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to income tax and non-income tax matters. we have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period for which that determination is made. refer to note 11: income taxes for further information on potential contingencies surrounding income taxes. note 15: employee benefit plans retirement savings plan the tripadvisor retirement savings plan (the 401(k) plan ), qualifies under section 401(k) of the internal revenue code. the 401(k) plan allows participating employees, most of our u.s. employees, to make contributions of a specified percentage of their eligible compensation. participating employees may contribute up to 50 % of their eligible salary on a pre-tax basis, but not more than statutory limits. employee-participants age 50 and over may also contribute an additional amount of their salary on a pre-tax tax basis up to the irs catch-up provision limit (or catch-up contributions ). employees may also contribute into the 401(k) plan on an after-tax basis up (or roth 401(k) contributions ) to an annual maximum of 10 %. the 401(k) plan has an automatic enrollment feature at 6 % pre-tax. we match 50 % of the first 6 % of employee contributions to the plan for a maximum employer contribution of 3 % of a participant's eligible earnings. the catch-up contributions are not eligible for employer matching contributions. the matching contributions portion of an employee's account, vests after two years of service. additionally, at the end of the 401(k) plan year, we make a discretionary matching contribution to eligible participants. this additional discretionary matching employer contribution (or true up ) is limited to match only contributions up to 3% of eligible compensation. we also have various defined contribution plans for our international employees. our contribution to the 401(k) plan and our international defined contribution plans which are recorded in our consolidated statement of operations for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were $ 14 million, $ 13 million, and $ 9 million, respectively. tripadvisor, inc. deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors the company also has a deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors (the plan ). under the plan, eligible directors who defer their directors' fees may elect to have such deferred fees (i) applied to the purchase of share units, representing the number of shares of our common stock that could have been purchased on the date such fees would otherwise be payable, or (ii) credited to a cash fund. the cash fund will be credited with interest at an annual rate equal to the weighted average prime or base lending rate of a financial institution selected 109 in accordance with the terms of the plan and applicable law. upon termination of service as a director of tripadvisor , a director will receive (i) with respect to share units, such number of shares of our common stock as the share units represent, and (ii) with respect to the cash fund, a cash payment. payments upon termination will be made in either one lump sum or up to five annual installments, as elected by the eligible director at the time of the deferral election. under the 2011 plan, 100,000 shares of tripadvisor common stock are available for issuance to non-employee directors. from the inception of the plan through december 31, 2019, a total of 6,267 shares have been reserved for such purpose. tripadvisor, inc. executive severance plan and summary plan description effective august 7, 2017, the company adopted an executive severance plan and summary plan description (the severance plan ) applicable to certain employees of the company and its subsidiaries. the severance plan formalizes and standardizes the company's severance practices for certain designated employees (each, a participant and, collectively, the participants ). participants covered by the severance plan generally will be eligible to receive severance benefits in the event of a termination by the company without cause or, under certain circumstances, by the participant for good reason. the severance benefits differ if there is a termination of employment in connection with a change in control. the severance benefits provided pursuant to the severance plan are determined based on the job classification of the participants (as reflected in internal job profile designations) and, in certain cases, their years of service with the company. under the severance plan, in the event of a termination by the company without cause more than three months prior to a change in control or more than twelve months following a change in control, the severance benefits for the participant generally shall consist of the following: continued payment of base salary for a period of six to eighteen months following the date of such participant's termination of employment and continuation of coverage under the company's health insurance plan through the company's payment of cobra premiums for a period of six to eighteen months following the date of such participant's termination of employment. under the severance plan, in the event of a termination by the company without cause or by the participant for good reason, in each case within three months prior to or twelve months following a change in control, the severance benefits for the participant shall consist of the following: payment of a lump sum amount equal to (i) twelve to twenty-four months of the participant's base salary, plus (ii) the participant's target bonus multiplied by 1, 1.5 or 2 and payment of a lump sum amount equal to the premiums required to continue the participant's medical coverage under the company's health insurance plan for a period of twelve to twenty-four months . the foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the executive severance plan and summary plan description incorporated herein by reference as exhibit 10.23 to this annual report on form 10-k. severance expense recorded under this plan was not significant during each of the years end december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. note 16: stockholders' equity preferred stock in addition to common stock, we are authorized to issue up to 100 million preferred shares, with $ 0.001 par value per share, with terms determined by our board of directors, without further action by our stockholders. as of december 31, 2019, no preferred shares had been issued. 110 common stock and class b common stock our authorized common stock consists of 1.6 billion shares of common stock with par value of $ 0.001 per share, and 400 million shares of class b common stock with par value of $ 0.001 per share. both classes of common stock qualify for and share equally in dividends, if declared by our board of directors. common stock is entitled to one vote per share and class b common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share . holders of tripadvisor common stock, acting as a single class, are entitled to elect a number of directors equal to 25 % percent of the total number of directors, rounded up to the next whole number, which was three directors as of december 31, 2019. class b common stockholders may, at any time, convert their shares into common stock, on a one for one share basis. upon conversion, the class b common stock is retired and is not available for reissue. in the event of liquidation, dissolution, distribution of assets or winding-up of tripadvisor the holders of both classes of common stock have equal rights to receive all the assets of tripadvisor after the rights of the holders of the preferred stock have been satisfied. there were 138,698,307 and 124,581,773 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, respectively, and 12,799,999 shares of class b common stock issued and outstanding at december 31, 2019. accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) accumulated other comprehensive loss is primarily comprised of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments, as follows for the periods presented: december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 (in millions) cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax (1) $ ( 63 ) $ ( 62 ) total accumulated other comprehensive loss (2) $ ( 63 ) $ ( 62 ) (1) through the year ended december 31, 2018, foreign currency translation adjustments excluded a provision for u.s. federal and state income taxes as a result of the company's intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of its international subsidiaries outside of the united states. in response to increased cash requirements in the u.s. related to the company's declaration of a special cash dividend and other strategic initiatives during the fourth quarter of 2019, we determined that we no longer consider certain foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested. the deferred income tax liability related to foreign currency translation adjustments is not material. (2) our accumulated net unrealized gain (loss) on available for sale debt securities was not material as of december 31, 2018. treasury stock on january 25, 2017, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of $ 250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we repurchased a total of 6,079,003 shares of the company's outstanding common stock under this share repurchase program at an average share price of $ 41.13 , exclusive of fees and commissions, or $ 250 million in the aggregate, and completed this share repurchase program. as of december 31, 2017, there were 9,474,490 shares of the company's common stock held in treasury with an aggregate cost of $ 447 million. on january 31, 2018, our board of directors authorized an additional repurchase of up to $ 250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. this share repurchase program has no expiration date but may be suspended or terminated by the board of directors at any time. during the year ended december 31, 2018, we repurchased 2,582,198 shares of our outstanding common stock at an average share price of $ 38.73 per share, exclusive of fees and commissions, or $ 100 million in the aggregate. as of december 31, 2018, we had a remaining $ 150 million available to repurchase shares of our common stock under this share repurchase program. as of december 31, 2018, there were 12,056,688 shares of the company's common stock held in treasury with an aggregate cost of $ 547 million. on november 1, 2019, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $ 100 million in shares of our common stock under our existing share repurchase program, which increased the amount available to 111 the company under this share repurchase program to $ 250 million. during the year ended december 31, 2019, we repurchased 2,059,846 shares of our outstanding common stock at an average share price of $ 29.32 per share, exclusive of fees and commissions, or $ 60 million in the aggregate. as of december 31, 2019, we had $ 190 million remaining available to repurchase shares of our common stock under this share repurchase program. as of december 31, 2019, there were 14,116,534 shares of the company's common stock held in treasury with an aggregate cost of $ 607 million. our board of directors authorized and directed management, working with the executive committee of our board of directors, to affect the share repurchase programs discussed above in compliance with applicable legal requirements. dividends on november 1, 2019, the company's board of directors declared a special cash dividend of $ 3.50 per share, or approximately $ 488 million in the aggregate. the dividend was payable on december 4, 2019 to stockholders of record on november 20, 2019 . during the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, our board of directors did not declare any dividends on our outstanding common stock. any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. our ability to pay dividends is also limited by the terms of our 2015 credit facility. refer to note 10: debt in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding this revolving credit facility. in connection with the declaration of such dividends, our non-vested rsus are entitled to dividend equivalents, which will be payable to the holder subject to, and upon vesting of, the underlying awards. our outstanding stock options are not entitled to dividend or dividend equivalents. note 17: related party transactions relationship between liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. and tripadvisor we consider liberty tripadvisor holdings, inc. ( ltrip ) a related party. as of december 31, 2019, ltrip beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our class b common stock, which constitute 14.6 % of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100 % of the outstanding shares of class b common stock. assuming the conversion of all of ltrip's shares of class b common stock into common stock, ltrip would beneficially own 22.5 % of the outstanding common stock. because each share of class b common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share , ltrip may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 57.9 % of our voting power. refer to note 1: organization and business description above, which describes the evolution of our relationship with ltrip. we had no related party transactions with ltrip during the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017. note 18: segment and geographic information beginning in the first quarter of 2019 we have two reportable segments: (1) hotels, media platform and (2) experiences dining. our hotels, media platform reportable segment includes the following revenue sources: (1) tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue primarily consisting of tripadvisor-branded hotel metasearch auction revenue, and to a lesser extent transaction revenue from our hotel instant booking feature, subscription-based advertising and hotel sponsored placements advertising revenue and (2) tripadvisor-branded display and platform revenue consisting of tripadvisor-branded display-based revenue. all remaining business units have been combined into and reported as other , which includes rentals, flights/cruises/car, smartertravel, and tripadvisor china, as none of these businesses meet the quantitative thresholds and other criteria to qualify as reportable segments, and therefore are combined and disclosed as other. the nature of the services provided and revenue recognition policies are summarized by reported segment in note 4: revenue recognition . 112 all direct general and administrative costs are included in the applicable segments and business units however, all corporate general and administrative costs are included in the hotels, media platform reportable segment. in addition, the hotels, media platform reportable segment includes all tripadvisor -related brand advertising expenses (primarily television advertising), and technical infrastructure and other costs supporting the tripadvisor platform. adjusted ebitda is our segment profit measure and a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate the operating performance of our business and on which internal budgets and forecasts are based and approved. we define adjusted ebitda as net income (loss) plus: (1) provision for income taxes (2) other income (expense), net (3) depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal use software and website development (4) amortization of intangible assets (5) stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations (6) goodwill, long-lived asset and intangible asset impairments (7) legal reserves and settlements (8) restructuring and other related reorganization costs and (9) non-recurring expenses and income. during the fourth quarter of 2019, the company revised its adjusted ebitda definition to exclude restructuring and other related reorganization costs, as the company believes these costs are not directly tied to the ongoing core operations of our business. the company believes that excluding these amounts better enables management and investors to compare financial results between periods as these costs may vary independent of business performance. this revision to our definition did not have a material impact to adjusted ebitda for any period prior to the year ended december 31, 2019 therefore, no reclassifications have been made to conform the prior periods to the current period presentation. this revision had no effect on consolidated gaap results in any period. the following tables present our segment information for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 and includes a reconciliation of adjusted ebitda to net income. we record depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal-use software and website development, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations, legal reserves and settlements, restructuring and other related reorganization costs, other income (expense), net, other non-recurring expenses and income, net, and income taxes, which are excluded from segment operating performance, in corporate and unallocated. in addition, we do not report our assets, capital expenditures and related depreciation expense by segment as our codm does not use this information to evaluate operating segments. accordingly, we do not regularly provide such information by segment to our codm. intersegment revenue is not material and is included in other. year ended december 31, 2019 hotels, media platform (1) experiences dining other (2) corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 939 $ 456 $ 165 $ $ 1,560 adjusted ebitda 378 5 55 438 depreciation ( 93 ) ( 93 ) amortization of intangible assets ( 33 ) ( 33 ) stock-based compensation ( 124 ) ( 124 ) restructuring and other related reorganization costs ( 1 ) ( 1 ) operating income 187 other income, net 7 income before income taxes 194 provision for income taxes ( 68 ) net income $ 126 113 year ended december 31, 2018 hotels, media platform (1) experiences dining other (2) corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,001 $ 372 $ 242 $ $ 1,615 adjusted ebitda 329 48 45 422 depreciation ( 82 ) ( 82 ) amortization of intangible assets ( 34 ) ( 34 ) stock-based compensation ( 118 ) ( 118 ) legal reserves and settlements ( 5 ) ( 5 ) operating income 183 other expense, net ( 10 ) income before income taxes 173 provision for income taxes ( 60 ) net income $ 113 year ended december 31, 2017 hotels, media platform (1) experiences dining other (2) corporate and unallocated total (in millions) revenue $ 1,022 $ 264 $ 270 $ $ 1,556 adjusted ebitda 267 23 41 331 depreciation ( 79 ) ( 79 ) amortization of intangible assets ( 32 ) ( 32 ) stock-based compensation ( 96 ) ( 96 ) operating income 124 other expense, net ( 14 ) income before income taxes 110 provision for income taxes (3) ( 129 ) net loss $ ( 19 ) (1) includes allocated corporate general and administrative costs of $ 69 million, $ 77 million and $ 76 million and tripadvisor-branded advertising expenses (primarily television advertising) of $ 77 million, $ 122 million and $ 82 million for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. (2) other consists of the combination of our rentals, flights/cruises/car, smartertravel and tripadvisor china business units and does not constitute a reportable segment. (3) the year ended december 31, 2017 reflects $ 67 million of transition tax and $ 6 million of tax expense recorded due to the remeasurement of net deferred tax assets related to the 2017 tax act enacted on december 22, 2017. refer to note 11: income taxes for further information. revenue and geographic information our revenue sources within our hotels, media platform segment, which are tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue and tripadvisor-branded display and platform revenue which along with our experience dining and other revenue source, comprise our products. refer to note 4: revenue recognition for our revenue by source. 114 t he company measures its geographic revenue information to the physical location of the tripadvisor subsidiary which generates the revenue, which is consistent with our measurement of long-lived physical assets, or property and equipment, net. the geographic classification is independent of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using the company's services, or the location of the travel service provider, experience operator or restaurant. for example, a reservation made through tripadvisor.com at a hotel in the u.s. by a consumer in the u.s. could be part of the company's non-u.s. revenue. year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) revenue united states $ 821 $ 835 $ 802 united kingdom 466 508 530 all other countries 273 272 224 total revenue $ 1,560 $ 1,615 $ 1,556 the company's property and equipment, net for the united states and all other countries based on the geographic location of the assets consists of the following for the periods presented: december 31, 2019 2018 (in millions) property and equipment, net united states $ 227 $ 214 all other countries 43 39 total $ 270 $ 253 note 19: other income (expense), net other income (expense), net, consists of the following for the periods presented: year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) foreign currency exchange rates gains (losses), net (1) $ ( 2 ) $ ( 9 ) $ 1 gain (loss) and impairments on equity investments in privately-held companies, net 1 ( 2 ) gain (loss) from equity method investment, net ( 1 ) other income (expense), net 3 1 total $ ( 3 ) $ ( 5 ) $ (1) our foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net, are generally related to foreign exchange transaction gains and losses from the conversion of the transaction currency to the functional currency, partially offset by the foreign currency forward contract gains and losses. 115 note 20: quarterly financial information (unaudited) the following table presents selected unaudited financial information for the eight quarters in the period ended december 31, 2019. the results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of future quarterly results and, accordingly, period to period comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. three months ended march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 (in millions, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2019 revenue $ 376 $ 422 $ 428 $ 335 operating income 31 66 68 23 net income 26 34 50 15 basic earnings per share (1) $ 0.19 $ 0.24 $ 0.36 $ 0.11 diluted earnings per share (1) $ 0.18 $ 0.24 $ 0.36 $ 0.11 year ended december 31, 2018 revenue $ 378 $ 433 $ 458 $ 346 operating income 23 49 89 23 net income 5 32 69 7 basic earnings per share (1) $ 0.04 $ 0.23 $ 0.50 $ 0.05 diluted earnings per share (1) $ 0.04 $ 0.23 $ 0.49 $ 0.05 (1) earnings per share is computed independently for each of the quarters presented. therefore, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share may not equal the total computed for the year. item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a . controls and procedures evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures as of december 31, 2019, our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act. based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer concluded that, as of december 31, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the exchange act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the securities and exchange commission's, or the sec's, rules and forms, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and president and our chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. changes in internal control over financial reporting there were no changes to our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended december 31, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. management's report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rule 13a-15(f) of the exchange act. internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance 116 with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. under the supervision and with the participation of the company's management, including the chief executive officer and president and the chief financial officer, the company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management evaluated the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2019. pursuant to exchange act rule 13a-15(d) or 15d-15(d), management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2019, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. management has reviewed its assessment with the audit committee. kpmg llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2019, as stated in their report which is included below. limitations on effectiveness of controls and procedures management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. 117 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the stockholders and board of directors tripadvisor, inc.: opinion on internal control over financial reporting we have audited tripadvisor, inc. and subsidiaries' (the company) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2019, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2019, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) (pcaob), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2019, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements), and our report dated february 19, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. basis for opinion the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 118 /s/ kpmg llp boston, massachusetts february 19, 2020 119 item 9b . other information not applicable. part iii item 10 . directors, executive officers and corporate governance the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2020 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2019. item 11 . executive compensation the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2020 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2019. item 12 . security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2020 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2019. item 13 . certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2020 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2019. item 14 . principal accounting fees and services the information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2020 proxy statement, which proxy statement will be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended december 31, 2019. part iv item 15 . exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) the following is filed as part of this annual report on form 10-k: 1. consolidated financial statements : the consolidated financial statements and report of independent registered public accounting firms required by this item are included in part ii,