risk factors 5 risk factors important risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the mergers will not be consummated until january 16, 2017 and each of the parties has limited rights to terminate the business combination agreement until such date. under applicable u.k. regulations, the technip merger cannot become effective until a period of at least 21 days has elapsed following the issuance of the technip merger order. the technip merger order, which was obtained on december 21, 2016, set the effective time of the technip merger for january 16, 2017 at 22:58 gmt. to obtain the technip merger order, each of technipfmc and technip appeared at a hearing of the english court, requested the order pursuant to the u.k. merger regulations and affirmed that all closing conditions under the business combination agreement had been satisfied or waived. until the effective time of the technip merger, each of the parties has limited rights to terminate the business combination agreement and to seek to terminate the effectiveness of the technip merger order (and may be required to consummate the mergers), notwithstanding the occurrence of circumstances that might otherwise cause certain closing conditions under the business combination agreement to not be satisfied had such events occurred prior to the issuance of the technip merger order. the parties have agreed in the business combination agreement that following receipt of the technip merger order, the parties will not take any action to modify, rescind or terminate the technip merger order without the prior written consent of the other parties. however, if the business combination agreement is terminated before the effective time of the technip merger but after receipt of the technip merger order from the english court, the parties have agreed to take action to eliminate the technip merger order prior to the effective time of the technip merger. it cannot be assured that the english court would give effect to a request to eliminate or amend the technip merger order after the technip merger order has been issued, and as a consequence there can be no guarantee that technip, technipfmc and fmcti would not be required to consummate the mergers even if events were to occur that would have otherwise given the parties the right to terminate the business combination agreement had such events occurred prior to the issuance of the technip merger order. the business combination agreement may be terminated if certain tax opinions are not received. pursuant to the business combination agreement, each of fmcti and technip may terminate the transactions contemplated by the business combination agreement prior to the effective time of the technip merger if either fmcti has not received from latham &amp; watkins llp or technip has not received from davis polk &amp; wardwell llp an opinion to the effect that section 7874 (as defined in the section entitled the irs may not agree with the conclusion that technipfmc should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes of this report) should not apply in such a manner so as to cause technipfmc to be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the transactions contemplated by the business combination agreement. the underlying facts as of the effective time of the technip merger may cause counsel to be unable to render the opinions which are the subject of the termination right, including as a result of fluctuations in the value of fmcti shares or technip shares, the value of certain assets held then by technip or the amount of liabilities assumed in the technip merger. in addition, there may be changes in law (including irs guidance) that may cause either counsel to be unable to render such opinions. 5 failure to complete the mergers due to a termination of the business combination agreement could negatively impact the stock price and the future business and financial results of fmcti and technip. if the mergers are not completed due to a termination of the business combination agreement, the ongoing businesses of fmcti may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the mergers, fmcti and technip would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: fmcti may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay technip a termination fee of approximately $250 million or reimburse technip for certain fees and expenses; technip may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay fmcti a termination fee of approximately $250 million or reimburse fmcti for certain fees and expenses; fmcti and technip are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of their businesses prior to completing the mergers, which may adversely affect their abilities to execute certain of their respective business strategies; technip and fmcti have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and fees associated with the proposed mergers; technip and fmcti may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on their stock prices; technip and fmcti may experience negative reactions from their customers, regulators and employees; and matters relating to the mergers (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources by technip and fmcti management, which would otherwise have been devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may have been beneficial to technip and fmcti as independent companies. in addition, technip and fmcti could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the mergers or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against technip, fmcti or technipfmc to perform its obligations under the business combination agreement. if the mergers are not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect technip's or fmcti's businesses, financial condition, financial results and stock price. the number of technipfmc shares that technip stockholders and fmcti stockholders will receive respectively in the technip merger and the fmcti merger will be based on a fixed exchange ratio that will not be adjusted to reflect changes in the market value of technip shares or fmcti shares. the value of the technipfmc shares that technip and fmcti stockholders receive upon completion of the mergers could vary based on changes in the market value of technip shares and fmcti shares. upon completion of the mergers, technip stockholders will be entitled to receive 2.00 technipfmc shares for each technip share that they own and fmcti stockholders will be entitled to receive 1.00 technipfmc share for each fmcti share that they own. immediately following consummation of the mergers, it is expected that former technip stockholders will own approximately 51.1% of technipfmc and former fmcti stockholders will own approximately 48.9% of technipfmc, on a fully diluted basis, as of january 4, 2017 (i.e., taking into account the effect of all the dilutive instruments, being performance shares and stock options for technip and restricted stock units for fmcti, using the treasury method). the market value of the technipfmc shares that technip stockholders and fmcti stockholders will be entitled to receive respectively when the technip merger and fmcti merger are completed could vary significantly due to a change in the market value of technip shares and fmcti shares from the date the parties entered into the memorandum of understanding (the mou ) or, the date the business combination agreement was entered into. because the exchange ratio will not be adjusted to reflect any changes in the market value of technip shares or fmcti shares, such market price fluctuations may affect the relative value that technip stockholders and fmcti stockholders will respectively receive at the effective times of the technip merger and the fmcti merger. share price changes may result from a variety of factors, including changes in the business, operations or prospects of technip or fmcti, market assessments of the likelihood that the mergers will be completed, the timing of the mergers, regulatory considerations, governmental actions, general market and economic conditions, legal proceedings and other factors, each of which may be beyond the control of technipfmc, technip or fmcti. 6 the trading of technipfmc shares after completion of the mergers may cause the market price of technipfmc shares to fall. following completion of the mergers, technipfmc shares will be publicly traded on both the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) and euronext paris, enabling former fmcti stockholders and former technip stockholders to sell the technipfmc shares they receive in the mergers. such sales of technipfmc shares may take place promptly following the mergers and could have the effect of decreasing the market price for technipfmc shares owned by former fmcti stockholders and technip stockholders below the market price of the fmcti shares or technip shares owned by such fmcti stockholders and technip stockholders prior to completion of the mergers. after the mergers, stockholders of both companies will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in the combined company than they currently have and will exercise less influence over management. immediately following consummation of the mergers, it is expected that former technip stockholders will own approximately 51.1% of technipfmc and former fmcti stockholders will own approximately 48.9% of technipfmc, on a fully diluted basis, as of january 4, 2017 (i.e., taking into account the effect of all the dilutive instruments, being performance shares and stock options for technip and restricted stock units for fmcti, using the treasury method). consequently, former fmcti stockholders will have a reduced ownership and will exercise less influence over the management and policies of the combined company than they currently have over the management and policies of fmcti, and former technip stockholders will have a reduced ownership and could exercise less influence over the management and policies of the combined company than they currently have over the management and policies of technip. moreover, following the favorable vote of the technip stockholders entitled to double voting rights during the special meeting, which was a condition to the parties' respective obligations to consummate the mergers, technip stockholders will no longer benefit from double voting rights following completion of the mergers. in addition, pursuant to the terms of the business combination agreement, following the closing, the technipfmc board of directors will initially be comprised of 14 directors, consisting of seven individuals designated by fmcti prior to closing and seven individuals designated by technip prior to closing. except as otherwise permitted by applicable nyse rules, the technipfmc board of directors will be comprised of a majority of directors who qualify as independent directors. upon the closing of the mergers, thierry pilenko, current chairman and chief executive officer of technip, will serve as the executive chairman of the technipfmc board of directors, douglas j. pferdehirt, current president and chief executive officer of fmcti, will serve as the chief executive officer of technipfmc. fmcti will designate the chairperson of each of the nominating and corporate governance committee and the compensation committee, technip will designate the chairperson of each of the audit committee and the strategy committee, and each committee of the board of directors will have an equal number of fmcti and technip appointed directors. upon the closing of the mergers, thierry pilenko will serve as chairman of the strategy committee. some of the termination rights may be waived by technip or fmcti without resoliciting technip or fmcti stockholder approval of the proposals approved by them. some of the termination rights set forth in the business combination agreement may be waived by technip or fmcti and technipfmc, subject to certain limitations. if any termination rights are waived, fmcti and technip will evaluate whether amendment of the u.s. prospectus and resolicitation of proxies would be warranted. subject to applicable law, if fmcti and technip determine that resolicitation of fmcti's or technip's stockholders is not warranted, the parties will have the discretion to complete the mergers without seeking further technip stockholder approval or fmcti stockholder approval. no action by the fmcti board of directors or technip board of directors with respect to the business combination agreement may adversely affect the stockholders of fmcti or stockholders of technip, respectively, or affect the consideration to be received by the stockholders of fmcti or stockholders of technip in the mergers unless their respective stockholders approve such action. 7 technip and fmcti may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other key employees due to uncertainty associated with the mergers. technipfmc's success after completion of the mergers will depend in part upon the ability of technipfmc to retain key employees of technip and fmcti. competition for qualified personnel can be intense. current and prospective employees of technip or fmcti may experience uncertainty about the effect of the mergers, which may impair technip's and fmcti's ability to attract, retain and motivate key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel prior to and following the mergers. employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the mergers, as employees of technip and fmcti may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. in addition, pursuant to change-in-control provisions in fmcti's and technip's executive severance and employment agreements, certain key employees of fmcti and technip are entitled to receive severance payments upon certain terminations of employment. certain key fmcti and technip employees potentially could terminate their employment following specified circumstances set forth in the applicable executive severance or employment agreement, including certain changes in such key employees' title, status, authority, duties, responsibilities or compensation, and be entitled to receive severance. such circumstances could occur in connection with the mergers as a result of changes in roles and responsibilities. while fmcti and technip may employ the use of certain retention programs, there can be no guarantee that they will prove to be successful. if key employees of technip or fmcti depart, the integration of the companies may be more difficult and the combined company's business following the mergers may be harmed. furthermore, the combined company may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for departing employees and may lose significant expertise and talent relating to the businesses of technip or fmcti, and the combined company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the mergers may thus be adversely affected. in addition, there could be disruptions to or distractions for the workforce and management associated with activities of labor unions or works councils or integrating employees into the combined company. accordingly, no assurance can be given that technipfmc will be able to attract or retain key employees of technip and fmcti to the same extent that those companies have been able to attract or retain their own employees in the past. technip's and fmcti's business relationships may be subject to disruption due to uncertainty associated with the mergers. companies with which technip or fmcti do business may experience uncertainty associated with the mergers, including with respect to current or future business relationships with technip, fmcti or the combined company. technip's and fmcti's business relationships may be subject to disruption as customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors and others may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than technip, fmcti or the combined company. these disruptions could have an adverse effect on the businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of the combined company, including an adverse effect on the combined company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the mergers. the risk and adverse effect of such disruptions could be exacerbated by a delay in completion of the mergers. the ruling requested from the french tax authorities in connection with the technip merger could be denied or revoked after being obtained. the french tax ruling has been requested from the french tax authorities to ensure that the technip merger benefits from the favorable corporate income tax merger regime set forth in article 210-a of the french tax code. this tax regime mainly provides for a deferral of taxation of any capital gains that will be realized by technip as a result of the transfer of all of its assets and liabilities to technipfmc. although there can be no assurance that the french tax ruling will be obtained, the granting of this tax ruling is not discretionary. the french tax authorities are required by the french tax code to grant the tax ruling if they are satisfied that (i) the technip merger has a valid business purpose, (ii) the technip merger does not have tax fraud or tax evasion as one of its main objectives and (iii) france will retain the future right to tax any capital gains on the assets of technip resulting from the technip merger that were deferred. the tax ruling will be based on a number of declarations and representations as to factual matters made by technip to the french tax authorities. if any such declarations and representations are not true, the french tax authorities could refuse to grant the tax ruling or could revoke the tax ruling after it has been obtained. in addition, the granting of this tax ruling is subject to certain conditions, including an undertaking from technipfmc that it will maintain a permanent establishment in france to which the assets and liabilities of technip (mainly shares in subsidiaries) can be attributed. the failure by technipfmc to comply with these conditions and, in particular, to maintain the required degree of substance at the level of such permanent establishment may cause the french tax authorities to revoke the tax ruling after it has been obtained. 8 pursuant to the business combination agreement, it was a condition to the parties' obligations to consummate the mergers that technip receives a legal opinion, as of the closing date, of darrois villey maillot brochier a.a.r.p.i., french tax counsel to technip, to the effect that the technip merger will qualify for the intended french tax treatment contemplated by the business combination agreement. the opinion was delivered to technip in accordance with the business combination agreement but did not address the application of article 210-a of the french tax code due to the pendency of the french tax ruling process. a decision by the french tax authorities to revoke the tax ruling would trigger the retroactive taxation of capital gains, which taxation was deferred at the time of the technip merger and would thus result in adverse tax consequences to technipfmc that could affect its results of operations and financial position. the combined company may not realize the cost savings, synergies and other benefits that the parties expect to achieve from the mergers. the combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, the combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of technip and fmcti. the integration process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and, if ineffectively implemented, could preclude realization of the full benefits expected by technip and fmcti from the mergers. the failure of the combined company to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of technip and fmcti or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the mergers could cause an interruption of the activities of the combined company and could seriously harm its results of operations. in addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client relationships and diversion of management's attention, and may cause the combined company's stock price to decline. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: managing a significantly larger company; coordinating geographically separate organizations; the potential diversion of management focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters; aligning and executing the strategy of the combined company; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees; integrating two unique business cultures, which may prove to be incompatible; the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; coordinating distribution and marketing efforts; integrating information technology, communications and other systems; changes in applicable laws and regulations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the mergers; and taking actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals. 9 many of these factors will be outside of the combined company's control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact the combined company's business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if the operations of technip and fmcti are successfully integrated, the combined company may not realize the full benefits of the mergers, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that technip and fmcti expect. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. as a result, technip and fmcti cannot assure their stockholders that the combination of technip and fmcti will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the mergers. technipfmc's industry is undergoing consolidation that may impact its results of operations. technipfmc's industry is undergoing significant consolidation such as the merger of schlumberger limited with cameron international corporation and the proposed combination of ge oil and gas and baker hughes inc. this consolidation activity could have a significant negative impact on technipfmc's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. technipfmc is unable to predict what effect consolidations in the industry may have on prices, capital spending by its customers, its selling strategies, its competitive position, its ability to retain customers or its ability to negotiate favorable agreements with its customers. following completion of the mergers, technipfmc may not be included in the s&amp;p 500 or the cac 40. fmcti is currently a component of the standard &amp; poor's ( s&amp;p ) 500 index and technip is currently a component of the cotation assist e en continu ( cac ) 40 index. fmcti and technip intend that, following completion of the mergers, technipfmc will be included in both the s&amp;p 500 and the cac 40. it is possible, however, that following completion of the mergers, the s&amp;p 500 and the cac 40 will decline to include technipfmc in their indices. moreover, even if technipfmc is initially included in either index, it is possible that either or both indices may decide to exclude technipfmc from listing in the short, medium or long term. if technipfmc is not included, or does not remain, in the s&amp;p 500 or the cac 40, institutional investors that are required to track the performance of the s&amp;p 500 or the cac 40, respectively, or the funds that impose those qualifications may be required to sell the technipfmc shares they will own following completion of the mergers, which could adversely affect the price and trading volume of technipfmc shares. technip and fmcti will incur significant transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the mergers. technip and fmcti have incurred and expect to incur a number of non-recurring direct and indirect costs associated with the mergers. these costs and expenses include fees paid to financial, legal and accounting advisors, severance and other potential employment-related costs, including payments that may be made to certain technip and fmcti executives, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges. some of these costs are payable by technip and fmcti regardless of whether the mergers are completed. there are also processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the mergers and the integration of the two companies' businesses. while both technip and fmcti have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with the mergers and the other transactions contemplated by the business combination agreement and continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, there are many factors beyond their control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses. there may also be additional unanticipated significant costs in connection with the mergers that technip and fmcti may not recoup. these costs and expenses could reduce the realization of efficiencies and strategic benefits technip and fmcti expect technipfmc to achieve from the mergers. although technip and fmcti expect that these benefits will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all. 10 certain of the combined company's debt instruments will require it to comply with certain covenants. these restrictions could affect its ability to operate its business and may limit its ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. for example, such restrictions could adversely affect the combined company's ability to finance its operations, make strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, restructure its organization or finance its capital needs. additionally, the combined company's ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond its control such as prevailing economic, financial, regulatory and industry conditions. if it breaches any of these covenants or restrictions, the combined company could be in default under one or more of its debt instruments, which, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness under such agreements and cross defaults under its other debt instruments. any such actions could result in the enforcement of its lenders' rights and/or force the combined company into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could have a material adverse effect on the combined company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the market price of technipfmc shares after the mergers may be affected by factors different from those that may currently affect the market price of technip shares and fmcti shares. upon completion of the mergers, holders of technip shares and fmcti shares will become holders of technipfmc shares. technipfmc's combined businesses following the mergers will differ from those of technip and fmcti, respectively, prior to completion of the mergers in important respects and, accordingly, after the mergers, the market price of technipfmc shares may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the market price of technip shares and fmcti shares, separately. technipfmc shares to be received by technip stockholders and fmcti stockholders as a result of the mergers will have rights different from the technip shares and fmcti shares they hold prior to the effective times of the mergers. upon completion of the mergers, the rights of former technip stockholders and fmcti stockholders who become stockholders of technipfmc will be governed by the technipfmc articles and by the laws of england and wales. the rights associated with technip shares and fmcti shares are different from the rights associated with technipfmc shares. material differences between the rights of stockholders of fmcti and stockholders of technip and the rights of stockholders of technipfmc include differences with respect to, among other things, distributions, dividends, repurchases and redemptions, dividends in shares/bonus issues, preemptive rights, the election of directors, the removal of directors, the fiduciary and statutory duties of directors, conflicts of interests of directors, the indemnification of directors and officers, limitations on director liability, the convening of annual meetings of stockholders and special stockholder meetings, notice provisions for meetings, the quorum for stockholder meetings, the adjournment or postponement of stockholder meetings, the exercise of voting rights, stockholder action by written consent, stockholder suits, stockholder approval of certain transactions, rights of dissenting stockholders, anti-takeover measures and provisions relating to the ability to amend governing documents. the technipfmc articles provide that the courts of england and wales have exclusive jurisdiction to determine any and all disputes brought by a technipfmc stockholder (whether in its own name or in the name of technipfmc) against technipfmc and/or the technipfmc board of directors and/or any of the directors of technipfmc and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against technipfmc obtained in the u.s. or french courts. the technipfmc articles provide that the courts of england and wales shall have exclusive jurisdiction to determine any and all disputes brought by a stockholder in that stockholder's capacity (whether in its own name or in the name of technipfmc) as such against technipfmc and/or the technipfmc board of directors and/or any of the directors of technipfmc individually or collectively in connection with the technipfmc articles or any non-contractual obligations arising out of or in connection with the technipfmc articles. the rights of stockholders under delaware law and stockholders under english law in relation to the bringing of stockholder suits differ in several significant respects. in particular, under english law, the proper claimant for wrongs committed against technipfmc, including by the technipfmc directors, is considered to be technipfmc itself. english law only permits a stockholder to initiate a lawsuit on behalf of a company such as technipfmc in limited circumstances, and requires court permission to do so. because technipfmc is incorporated under the laws of england and wales, after the effective times of the mergers, stockholders could experience more difficulty enforcing judgments that might be obtained against technipfmc, if permitted, in u.s. and french courts than would currently be the case for u.s. judgments obtained against fmcti or french judgments obtained against technip. it may also be more difficult, or impossible, to bring some types of claims against technipfmc in the courts of england than it would be to bring similar claims against a u.s. company in a u.s. court or a french company in a french court. 11 the combined company's inability to integrate recently acquired businesses or to successfully complete future acquisitions could limit its future growth or otherwise be disruptive to its ongoing business. from time to time, the combined company expects it will pursue acquisitions in support of its strategic goals. in connection with any such acquisitions, the combined company could face significant challenges in managing and integrating its expanded or combined operations, including acquired assets, operations and personnel. there can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all or that technipfmc will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete potential acquisitions. the combined company's ability to succeed in implementing its strategy will depend to some degree upon the ability of its management to identify, complete and successfully integrate commercially viable acquisitions. acquisition transactions may disrupt the combined company's ongoing business and distract management from other responsibilities. the combined company's information technology systems may be vulnerable to hacker intrusion, malicious viruses and other cybercrime attacks, which may harm its business and expose the combined company to liability. the combined company's operations will depend to a great extent on the reliability and security of technipfmc's information technology system, software and network, which are subject to damage and interruption caused by human error, problems relating to telecommunications networks, software failure, natural disasters, sabotage, viruses and similar events. any interruption in technipfmc's systems could have a negative effect on the quality of products and services offered and, as a result, on customer demand and therefore volume of sales. the combined company will be exposed to significant risks in relation to compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulations and economic sanctions programs. doing business on a worldwide basis will require the combined company to comply with the laws and regulations of various jurisdictions. in particular, the combined company's international operations are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977 (the fcpa ), the u.k. bribery act of 2010 (the bribery act ), the brazilian anti-bribery act (also known as the brazilian clean company act) and economic and trade sanctions, including those administered by the united nations, the european union, the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury and the u.s. department of state. the fcpa prohibits providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. the combined company may deal with both governments and state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the fcpa. the provisions of the bribery act extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and are more onerous than the fcpa in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. economic and trade sanctions restrict the combined company's transactions or dealings with certain sanctioned countries, territories and designated persons. as a result of doing business in foreign countries, including through partners and agents, the combined company will be exposed to a risk of violating anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations. some of the international locations in which the combined company will operate have developing legal systems and may have higher levels of corruption than more developed nations. the combined company's continued expansion and worldwide operations, including in developing countries, its development of joint venture relationships worldwide and the employment of local agents in the countries in which the combined company will operate increases the risk of violations of anti-corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions. violations of anti-corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts (and termination of existing contracts) and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. in addition, any major violations could have a significant impact on the combined company's reputation and consequently on its ability to win future business. while technip and fmcti believe that the combined company will have a strong culture of compliance and adequate systems of internal control, including procedures to minimize and detect fraud in a timely manner, technip and fmcti will seek to continuously improve the combined company's systems of internal controls and to remedy any weaknesses identified. there can be no assurance, however, that the policies and procedures will be followed at all times or will effectively detect and prevent violations of the applicable laws by one or more of the combined company's employees, consultants, agents or partners and, as a result, the combined company could be subject to penalties and material adverse consequences on its business, financial condition or results of operations. 12 the irs may not agree with the conclusion that technipfmc should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. although technipfmc will be incorporated in the united kingdom, the irs may assert that it should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the internal revenue code ( section 7874 ). for u.s. federal income tax purposes, a corporation is generally considered a u.s. domestic corporation (or u.s. tax resident) if it is organized in the united states, and a corporation is generally considered a foreign corporation (or non-u.s. tax resident) if it is not a u.s. domestic corporation. because technipfmc is an entity incorporated in england and wales, it would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (or non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. unless technipfmc has satisfied the substantial business activities exception, as defined in section 7874 and described in more detail below (the substantial business activities exception ), technipfmc will be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation (that is, as a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 7874 if the percentage (by vote or value) of technipfmc shares considered to be held by former holders of fmcti shares after the fmcti merger by reason of holding fmcti shares for purposes of section 7874 (the section 7874 percentage ) is (i) 60% or more (if, as expected, the third country rule applies) or (ii) 80% or more (if the third country rule does not apply). in order for technipfmc to satisfy the substantial business activities exception, at least 25% of the employees (by headcount and compensation), real and tangible assets and gross income of the technipfmc expanded affiliated group must be based, located and derived, respectively, in the country in which technipfmc is a tax resident after the mergers. the substantial business activities exception is not expected to be satisfied. the section 7874 percentage is currently expected to be less than 60%. however, the calculation of the section 7874 percentage is complex, is calculated based on the facts as of the effective time of the fmcti merger, is subject to detailed regulations (the application of which is uncertain in various respects and would be impacted by changes in such regulations) and is subject to factual uncertainties (including fluctuations in the value of fmcti shares and technip shares and fluctuations in the value of certain assets held by technip as of the effective time of the technip merger and the amount of liabilities assumed in the technip merger). as a result, the irs could assert that the section 7874 percentage is greater than 60% and that technipfmc therefore is treated for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a u.s. domestic corporation (that is, as a u.s. tax resident). if the irs successfully challenged technipfmc's status as a foreign corporation, significant adverse tax consequences would result for technipfmc and for certain of technipfmc's stockholders. it is uncertain whether section 7874 will impose an excise tax on gain recognized by certain individuals. if the section 7874 percentage is calculated to be at least 60%, section 7874 and the rules related thereto may impose an excise tax under section 4985 of the internal revenue code (the section 4985 excise tax ) on the gain recognized by certain disqualified individuals (including officers and directors of a u.s. company) on certain stock-based compensation held thereby at a rate equal to 15%, even if the third country rule were to apply such that technipfmc were treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. each of technip and fmcti may, if it determines that it is appropriate, provide disqualified individuals of technip and fmcti (including officers and directors of technip and fmcti), respectively, with a payment with respect to the excise tax, so that, on a net after-tax basis, they would be in the same position as if no such excise tax had been applied. at this time, no such determination has been made. based on the limited guidance available, after taking into account the relevant adjustments under the temporary regulations and based on the facts and circumstances as of the date of the mou, the section 7874 percentage following the mergers is expected to be less than 60% and, thus, the section 4985 excise tax is not expected to apply to disqualified individuals of technip or fmcti. 13 future changes to u.s. and foreign tax laws could adversely affect technipfmc. the u.s. congress, the organisation for economic co-operation and development, and other government agencies in jurisdictions where technipfmc and its affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of base erosion and profit shifting, where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. additionally, recent legislative proposals would treat technipfmc as a u.s. corporation if the management and control of technipfmc and its affiliates were determined to be primarily located in the united states and/or would reduce the section 7874 percentage threshold at or above which technipfmc would be treated as a u.s. corporation. thus, the tax laws in the united states, the united kingdom and other countries in which technipfmc and its affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect technipfmc. furthermore, the interpretation and application of domestic or international tax laws made by technipfmc and technipfmc's subsidiaries could differ from that of the relevant governmental authority, which could result in administrative or judicial procedures, actions or sanctions, which could be material. u.s. tax laws and/or irs guidance could affect technipfmc's ability to engage in certain acquisition strategies and certain internal restructurings. even if technipfmc is treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, section 7874 and u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, including the temporary regulations may adversely affect the ability of technipfmc to engage in certain future acquisitions of u.s. businesses in exchange for technipfmc equity, which may affect the tax efficiencies that otherwise might be achieved in such potential future transactions. irs proposed regulations and/or changes in laws or treaties could adversely affect the technipfmc group. the irs and the u.s. treasury have issued proposed rules that would provide that, even if technipfmc is treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, certain intercompany debt instruments issued on or after april 4, 2016 will be treated as equity for u.s. federal income tax purposes, therefore limiting u.s. tax benefits and resulting in possible u.s. withholding taxes. if those proposed rules are finalized, such rules may adversely affect technipfmc's future effective tax rate. while these new rules are not retroactive, they could also impact technipfmc's ability to engage in future restructurings if such transactions cause an existing intercompany debt instrument to be treated as reissued for u.s. federal income tax purposes. furthermore, under certain circumstances, recent treaty proposals by the u.s. treasury, if ultimately adopted by the united states and relevant foreign jurisdictions, could reduce the potential tax benefits for technipfmc and technipfmc affiliates by imposing u.s. withholding taxes on certain payments from technipfmc u.s. affiliates to related and unrelated foreign persons. technipfmc may not qualify for benefits under the tax treaties entered into between the united kingdom and other countries. technipfmc intends to operate in a manner such that it is eligible for benefits under the tax treaties entered into between the united kingdom and other countries, notably the united states. however, technipfmc's ability to qualify for such benefits will depend upon whether technipfmc is treated as a u.k. tax resident and upon the requirements contained in each treaty and the applicable domestic laws, as the case may be, on the facts and circumstances surrounding technipfmc's operations and management, and on the relevant interpretation of the tax authorities and courts. the failure by technipfmc or its subsidiaries to qualify for benefits under the tax treaties entered into between the united kingdom and other countries could result in adverse tax consequences to technipfmc and its subsidiaries and could result in certain tax consequences of owning or disposing of technipfmc shares differing from those discussed below. 14 the effective tax rate that will apply to technipfmc is uncertain and may vary from expectations. there can be no assurance that the mergers will allow technipfmc to maintain any particular worldwide effective corporate tax rate. no assurances can be given as to what technipfmc's effective tax rate will be after completion of the mergers because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the jurisdictions in which technipfmc will derive income and the amounts derived thereof and uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions in which it operates. technipfmc's actual effective tax rate may vary from technip's and fmcti's expectations and that variance may be material. additionally, tax laws or their implementation and applicable tax authority practices could change in the future. technipfmc and its subsidiaries will be subject to tax laws of numerous jurisdictions, and the interpretation of those laws is subject to challenge by the relevant governmental authorities. technipfmc and its subsidiaries will be subject to tax laws and regulations in the united kingdom, the united states, france and the numerous other jurisdictions in which technipfmc and its subsidiaries operate. these laws and regulations are inherently complex, and technipfmc and its subsidiaries will be obligated to make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws and regulations to technipfmc and its subsidiaries and their operations and businesses. the interpretation and application of these laws and regulations could be challenged by the relevant governmental authorities, which could result in administrative or judicial procedures, actions or sanctions, which could be material. french tax authorities may seek to treat technipfmc as tax resident in france. following the technip merger, technipfmc will have a permanent establishment in france to satisfy certain french tax requirements imposed by the french tax code with respect to the technip merger. although it is intended that technipfmc will be treated as having its exclusive place of tax residence in the united kingdom, the french tax authorities may claim that technipfmc is a tax resident of france if technipfmc were to fail to maintain its place of effective management in the united kingdom due to the french tax authorities having deemed that certain strategic decisions of technipfmc have been taken at the level of its french permanent establishment rather than in the united kingdom. any such claim would need to be settled between the french and the u.k. tax authorities pursuant to the mutual assistance procedure provided for by the tax treaty dated june 19, 2008 concluded between france and the u.k. (the france-u.k. treaty ), and there is no assurance that these authorities would reach an agreement that technipfmc will remain exclusively a u.k. tax resident, which could materially and adversely affect the group's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. a failure to achieve or maintain exclusive tax residency in the united kingdom could result in adverse tax consequences to technipfmc and its subsidiaries and could result in tax consequences of owning or disposing of technipfmc shares. technipfmc intends to operate so as to be treated exclusively as a resident of the united kingdom for tax purposes, but the relevant tax authorities may treat it as also being a resident of another jurisdiction for tax purposes. technipfmc is a company incorporated in england and wales. english law currently provides that technipfmc will be regarded as being u.k. resident for tax purposes from incorporation and shall remain so unless (i) it is concurrently resident in another jurisdiction (applying the tax residence rules of that jurisdiction) that has a double tax treaty with the united kingdom and (ii) there is a tiebreaker provision in that tax treaty which allocates exclusive residence to that other jurisdiction. as an english public limited company, certain capital structure decisions may require stockholder approval which may limit technipfmc's flexibility to manage its capital structure. english law provides that a board of directors may only allot shares or rights to subscribe for, or convert any securities into, shares (other than shares or rights to subscribe for, or convert any securities into, shares in pursuance of an employees' share scheme) with the prior authorization of stockholders, such authorization being subject to a maximum nominal amount of shares and a maximum period of time (which must not be more than five years), each as specified in the articles of association or relevant stockholder resolution. this authorization would need to be renewed by technipfmc's stockholders upon its expiration ( i.e. , at least every five years). the technipfmc articles that will apply to technipfmc after the effective times of the mergers will authorize the allotment of additional shares for a period of five years from the date of the adoption of the technipfmc articles up to an aggregate nominal amount representing 20% of the number of shares in the capital of the technipfmc as of the date of the adoption of the technipfmc articles and after consummation of the mergers, which authorization will need to be renewed upon expiration ( i.e. , at least every five years) but may be sought more frequently for additional five-year terms (or any shorter period). 15 english law also generally provides stockholders with pre-emptive rights when new shares are issued for cash. however, it is possible for articles of association, or stockholders in general meeting, to exclude or disapply pre-emptive rights for a maximum period of five years as specified in the articles of association or relevant stockholder resolution. this exclusion or disapplication would need to be renewed by technipfmc's stockholders upon its expiration ( i.e. , at least once every five years). the technipfmc articles that will apply to technipfmc after the effective times of the mergers will disapply pre-emptive rights in relation to an allotment of shares for cash pursuant to the authority referred to above for a period of five years following the date of the adoption of the technipfmc articles, as permitted under english law, which disapplication will need to be renewed upon expiration ( i.e. , at least once every five years) to remain effective, but may be sought more frequently for additional five-year terms (or any shorter period). english law also generally prohibits a public company from repurchasing its own shares without the prior approval of stockholders by ordinary resolution, being a resolution passed by a simple majority of votes cast, and other formalities. such approval may be for a maximum period of up to five years. there can be no assurance that circumstances will not arise that would cause renewals of the foregoing stockholder approvals not to be obtained, which would deprive technipfmc's stockholders of substantial capital management benefits. english law will require that technipfmc meet certain additional financial requirements before it declares dividends or repurchases shares following the mergers. under english law, technipfmc will only be able to declare dividends, make distributions or repurchase shares (other than out of the proceeds of a new issuance of shares made for that purpose) out of distributable profits. distributable profits are a company's accumulated, realized profits, to the extent that they have not been previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, to the extent that they have not been previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. in addition, technipfmc, as a public limited company organized under the laws of england and wales, may only make a distribution if the amount of its net assets is not less than the aggregate of its called-up share capital and undistributable reserves and if, and to the extent that, the distribution does not reduce the amount of those assets to less than that aggregate. immediately after the mergers, technipfmc may not have distributable profits. following the effective date of the mergers, it is expected that technipfmc will capitalize some or all of the reserves arising as a result of the mergers by the allotment by technipfmc of a bonus share, which will be paid up using some or all of such reserves, such that the amount of such reserves so applied, less the nominal value of the bonus share, would be applied as share premium and accrue to technipfmc's share premium account. it is then expected that technipfmc will implement a court-approved reduction of its capital in order to create distributable profits to support the payment of possible future dividends or future share repurchases. there can be no assurance that court approval will be obtained in respect of technipfmc reducing its capital in order to create distributable profits. neither the capitalization nor the reduction will impact stockholders' relative interests in the capital of technipfmc. the technipfmc articles will, from the effective date of the mergers, permit technipfmc by ordinary resolution of the stockholders to declare dividends, provided that the directors have made a recommendation as to its amount. the dividend shall not exceed the amount recommended by the directors. the directors may also decide to pay interim dividends if it appears to them that the profits available for distribution justify the payment. when recommending or declaring the payment of a dividend, the directors will be required under english law to comply with their duties, including considering technipfmc's future financial requirements. transfers of technipfmc shares may be subject to u.k. stamp duty or u.k. stamp duty reserve tax ( sdrt ), which could potentially increase the cost of dealing in technipfmc shares as compared to technip or fmcti shares. on completion of the mergers, it is anticipated that the new technipfmc shares will be issued to a nominee for dtc and corresponding book-entry interests credited in the facilities of dtc (with respect to technipfmc shares listed on the nyse) and/or euroclear france (with respect to technipfmc shares listed on euronext paris) (dtc and euroclear france being referred to collectively as the clearance services ). the clearance services are widely used mechanisms that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in their respective systems, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. on december 7, 2016, hm revenue &amp; customs ( hmrc ) confirmed that, while technipfmc shares are held within the dtc system and provided that dtc (together with its nominee, cede&amp;co.) satisfies various conditions specified in u.k. legislation, no charges to u.k. stamp duty or sdrt will arise on transfers of book-entry interests in the technipfmc shares within and between the facilities of the clearance services. 16 immediately following the mergers, it may be possible for technipfmc shares to be held in certificated form outside the clearance services. arrangements may be put in place to facilitate the re-deposit of any such technipfmc shares with the clearance services. if such arrangements are adopted, such re-deposit would be expected to attract u.k. stamp duty or sdrt at a rate of 1.5% of the value of the technipfmc shares. dtc and euroclear paris may not accept technipfmc shares for deposit and clearing within their facilities or may cease to act as depository and clearing agencies for technipfmc shares. although technipfmc has taken all appropriate steps to ensure and expects that, upon completion of the mergers, technipfmc shares will be eligible for deposit and clearing within the clearance services, the clearance services are not obligated to accept technipfmc shares for deposit and clearing within their facilities at completion of the mergers and, even if they do initially accept technipfmc shares, they will generally have discretion to cease to act as depository and clearing agencies for technipfmc shares. if the clearance services determine at any time that technipfmc shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within their facilities, then technipfmc believes that technipfmc shares would not be eligible for continued listing on the nyse or euronext paris and trading in technipfmc shares would be disrupted. while technipfmc would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve the listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of technipfmc shares and there may be adverse u.k. stamp duty and/or sdrt consequences. the combined company is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. the combined company will transact business in numerous countries around the world and expects that a significant portion of its business will continue to take place in international markets. technipfmc will prepare its consolidated financial statements in its functional currency, while the financial statements of each of its subsidiaries will be prepared in the functional currency of that entity. accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the functional currencies of the combined company's foreign currency entities against the functional currency of technipfmc will impact its results of operations and financial condition. it is expected that the combined company's revenues and earnings will continue to be exposed to the risks that may arise from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could have a material adverse effect on technipfmc's business, results of operation or financial condition. additionally, the combined company will be exposed to numerous other risks currently faced by technip and fmcti, including interest rate risk, commodity risk, and other market risks. the level of any dividend paid in respect of technipfmc shares is subject to a number of factors, and there can be no assurance that technipfmc will pay dividends at the payout level which may be expected by the investors or at all. although technipfmc expects to pay dividends, the level of any dividend paid in respect of technipfmc shares is within the discretion of the technipfmc board of directors and is subject to a number of factors, including the business and financial conditions, earnings and cash flow of, and other factors affecting, technipfmc and its subsidiaries. under english law, technipfmc may only pay dividends out of profits available for that purpose. technipfmc's profits available for distribution are its accumulated, realized profits, to the extent that they have not been previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, to the extent that they have not been previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. the amount of technipfmc's distributable reserves is a cumulative calculation. technipfmc may be profitable in a single financial year but unable to pay a dividend if the profits of that year do not offset all previous years' accumulated, realized losses. stockholders could be diluted in the future, which could also adversely affect the market price of technipfmc shares. it is possible that technipfmc may decide to offer additional technipfmc shares in the future either to raise capital or for other purposes. if technipfmc stockholders do not take up such offer of technipfmc shares or were not eligible to participate in such offering, their proportionate ownership and voting interests in technipfmc would be reduced. any future offering could have a material adverse effect on the market price of technipfmc shares. 17 the results of the united kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and the business of the combined company, which could materially reduce the value of the technipfmc shares. the combined company will be based in the united kingdom and will have operational headquarters in paris, france, houston, texas, usa, and in london, united kingdom, with worldwide operations, including material business operations in europe. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the united kingdom elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum ( brexit ). the referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the united kingdom formally initiates a withdrawal process. nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union, and has given rise to calls for certain regions within the united kingdom to preserve their place in the european union by separating from the united kingdom as well as for the governments of other e.u. member states to consider withdrawal. these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. asset valuations, currency exchange rates and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility. lack of clarity about applicable future laws, regulations or treaties as the united kingdom negotiates the terms of a withdrawal, as well as the operation of any such rules pursuant to any withdrawal terms, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws, employment laws and other rules that would apply to technipfmc and its subsidiaries, could increase the combined company's costs, restrict its access to capital within the united kingdom and the european union, depress economic activity and decrease foreign direct investment in the united kingdom generally. for example, withdrawal from the european union could, depending on the negotiated terms of withdrawal, eliminate the benefit of certain tax-related e.u. directives currently applicable to u.k. companies such as technipfmc, including the parent-subsidiary directive and the interest and royalties directive, which could, subject to any relief under an available tax treaty, raise the combined company's tax costs. if the united kingdom and the european union are unable to negotiate acceptable withdrawal terms or if other e.u. member states pursue withdrawal, barrier-free access between the united kingdom and other e.u. member states or among the european economic area overall could be diminished or eliminated. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the combined company's business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the value of technipfmc shares. technipfmc shares will trade in u.s. dollars and in euros. technipfmc shares will trade in u.s. dollars on the nyse and in euros on euronext paris. fluctuations in the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate may bring distortions between the prices at which the technipfmc shares trade on each trading venue. any stockholder whose main currency is not the u.s. dollar may therefore be exposed to currency risks and may incur additional costs, such as financial intermediation costs. fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and a stockholder's main currency may affect the value of the dividend ultimately received by such stockholder in another currency. any future technipfmc dividends would be declared in u.s. dollars. any future technipfmc dividends would be declared in u.s. dollars and would be paid in u.s. dollars for shares listed on the nyse and paid in euros for shares listed on euronext paris. dividends to be paid in euros would be converted from u.s. dollars to euros. any stockholder whose main currency is not the u.s. dollar may therefore be exposed to currency risks and may incur additional costs, such as financial intermediation costs. fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and a stockholder's main currency may affect the value of the dividend ultimately received by such stockholder in another currency. 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk technipfmc did not conduct any activities other than those incidental to its formation and matters contemplated by the business combination agreement, and therefore did not incur any significant interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk or other relevant market risks. 21risk factors 17 risk factors important risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec. the company has identified material weaknesses relating to internal control over financial reporting. if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if one or more additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to further restate our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. management identified material weaknesses in the company's internal control over financial reporting as of march 31, 2017 and december 31, 2017 as described in part ii, item 9a of this annual report on form 10-k. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. as a result of the material weaknesses, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of december 31, 2017. in addition, as a result of these material weaknesses, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that, as of december 31, 2017, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. until these material weaknesses are remediated, they could lead to errors in our financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if one or more additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to further restate our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require significant resources to correct the weaknesses or deficiencies, subject us to fines, penalties or judgments, harm our reputation or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence and in the market price of our stock. additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could be identified in the future. any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under section 404 of the u.s. sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under section 404. the existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. we can give no assurances that the measures we have taken to date, or any future measures we may take, will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. in addition, even if we are successful in strengthening in our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair and accurate presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the u.s. securities and exchange commission. unanticipated changes relating to competitive factors in our industry, including ongoing industry consolidation, may impact our results of operations. our industry, including our customers and competitors, has experienced unanticipated changes in recent years. moreover, the industry is undergoing vertical and horizontal consolidation to create economies of scale and control the value chain, which may affect demand for our products and services because of price concessions for our competitors or decreased customer capital spending. this consolidation activity could impact our ability to maintain market share, maintain or increase pricing for our products and services or negotiate favorable contract terms with our customers and suppliers, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we are unable to predict what effect consolidations and other competitive factors in the industry may have on prices, capital spending by our customers, our selling 17 strategies, our competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with our customers. demand for our products and services depends on oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in the demand for and price of crude oil and natural gas. we are substantially dependent on conditions in the oil and gas industry, including (i) the level of exploration, development and production activity, (ii) capital spending, and (iii) the processing of oil and natural gas in refining units, petrochemical sites and natural gas liquefaction plants by energy companies that are our customers. any substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the reduced pace of discovery and development of new reserves of oil and gas and the reduced exploration of existing wells, which could adversely affect demand for our products and services and, in certain instances, result in the cancellation, modification, or re-scheduling of existing orders in our backlog. these factors could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. the level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions; costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; government policies and subsidies; available excess production capacity within the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and the level of oil production by non-opec countries; oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; potential acceleration of the development of alternative fuels; access to capital and credit markets, which may affect our customers' activity levels and spending for our products and services; and natural disasters. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. the current downturn in the oil and gas industry, which began in 2014, has resulted in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our success depends on our ability to implement new technologies and services. our success depends on the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs, including the processes used by us to produce or market our products, and on our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. if we are not able to obtain patent, trade secret or other protection of our intellectual property rights, if our patents are unenforceable or the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, or if we are not able to adequately protect or patents or trade secrets, we may not be able to continue to develop our services, products and related technologies. additionally, our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. if any of these events occurs, we may be unable to meet evolving industry requirements or to do so at prices acceptable to our customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the industries in which we operate or have operated expose us to potential liabilities, including the installation or use of our products, which may not be covered by insurance or may be in excess of policy limits, or for which expected recoveries may not be realized. we are subject to potential liabilities arising from equipment malfunctions, equipment misuse, personal injuries and natural disasters, the occurrence of which may result in uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. although we have obtained insurance against many of these risks, our insurance may not be adequate to cover our liabilities. further, the insurance may not generally be available in the future or, if available, premiums may not be commercially justifiable. if we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, such potential liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may lose money on fixed-price contracts. 18 as customary for the types of businesses that we operate, we often agree to provide products and services under fixed-price contracts. we are subject to material risks in connection with such fixed-price contracts. it is not possible to estimate with complete certainty the final cost or margin of a project at the time of bidding or during the early phases of its execution. actual expenses incurred in executing these fixed-price contracts can vary substantially from those originally anticipated for several reasons including, but not limited to, the following: unforeseen additional costs related to the purchase of substantial equipment necessary for contract fulfillment; mechanical failure of our production equipment and machinery; delays caused by local weather conditions and/or natural disasters (including earthquakes and floods); and a failure of suppliers or subcontractors to perform their contractual obligations. the realization of any material risks and unforeseen circumstances could also lead to delays in the execution schedule of a project. we may be held liable to a customer should we fail to meet project milestones or deadlines or to comply with other contractual provisions. additionally, delays in certain projects could lead to delays in subsequent projects for which production equipment and machinery currently being utilized on a project were intended. pursuant to the terms of fixed-price contracts, we are not always able to increase the price of the contract to reflect factors that were unforeseen at the time its bid was submitted. depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance, or variations in multiple contracts, could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. new capital asset construction projects for vessels and plants are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we seek to continuously upgrade and develop our asset base. such projects are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns that are inherent to any large construction project and are the result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, the following: shortages of key equipment, materials or skilled labor; unscheduled delays in the delivery or ordered materials and equipment; issues regarding the design and engineering; and shipyard delays and performance issues. failure to complete construction in time, or the inability to complete construction in accordance with its design specifications, may result in loss of revenue. additionally, capital expenditures for construction projects could materially exceed the initially planned investments or can result in delays in putting such assets into operation. our failure to timely deliver our backlog could affect our future sales, profitability, and our relationships with our customers. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times due to complex technical and logistical requirements. these contracts may contain clauses related to liquidated damages or financial incentives regarding on-time delivery, and a failure by us to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to liquidated damages or loss of financial incentives, reduce our margins on these contracts or result in damage to existing customer relationships. the ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, subcontractor performance, project engineering expertise and execution, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance, particularly in light of the current industry environment where customers may seek to improve their returns or cash flows. we face risks relating to our reliance on subcontractors, suppliers, and our joint venture partners. we generally rely on subcontractors, suppliers and our joint venture partners for the performance of our contracts. although we are not dependent upon any single supplier, certain geographic areas of our business or a project or group of projects may heavily depend on certain suppliers for raw materials or semi-finished goods. any difficulty faced by us in hiring suitable subcontractors or acquiring equipment and materials could compromise our ability to generate a significant margin on a project or to complete such project within the allocated timeframe. if subcontractors, suppliers or joint venture partners refuse to adhere to their contractual obligations with us or are unable to do so due to a deterioration of their financial condition, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement at a comparable price, or at all. moreover, the failure of one of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations in a timely and satisfactory manner could 19 lead to additional obligations and costs being imposed on us as we would be potentially obligated to assume our defaulting partner's obligations. based on these potential issues, we could be required to compensate our customers. any delay on the part of subcontractors, suppliers, or joint venture partners in the completion of work, any failure on the part of a subcontractor, supplier or joint venture partner to meet its obligations, or any other event attributable to a subcontractor, supplier or joint venture partner that is beyond our control or not foreseeable by us could lead to delays in the overall progress of the project and/or generate significant extra costs. even if we were entitled to make a claim for these extra costs against the defaulting supplier, subcontractor or joint venture partner, we could be unable to recover the entirety of these costs and this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our businesses are dependent on the continuing services of certain of our key managers and employees. we depend on key personnel. the loss of any key personnel could adversely impact our business if we are unable to implement key strategies or transactions in their absence. the loss of qualified employees or an inability to retain and motivate additional highly-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to successfully conduct research activities and develop marketable products and services. pirates endanger our maritime employees and assets. we face material piracy risks in the gulf of guinea, the somali basin and the gulf of aden, and, to a lesser extent, in southeast asia, malacca and the singapore straits. piracy represents a risk for both our projects and our vessels, which operate and transport through sensitive maritime areas. such risks have the potential to significantly harm our crews and to negatively impact the execution schedule for our projects. if our maritime employees or assets are endangered, additional time may be required to find an alternative solution, which may delay project realization and negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. seasonal and weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our services and operations. our business may be materially affected by variation from normal weather patterns, such as cooler or warmer summers and winters. adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the gulf of mexico or extreme winter conditions in canada, russia and the north sea, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers' operations, cause supply disruptions or loss of productivity and may result in a loss of revenue or damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. any of these events or outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. due to the types of contracts we enter into and the markets in which we operate, the cumulative loss of several major contracts, customers or alliances may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we often enter into large, long-term contracts that, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue. these agreements, if terminated or breached, may have a larger impact on our operating results or our financial condition than shorter-term contracts due to the value at risk. moreover, the global market for the production, transportation and transformation of hydrocarbons and by-products, as well as the other industrial markets in which we operate, is dominated by a small number of companies. as a result, our business relies on a limited number of customers. if we were to lose several key contracts, customers, or alliances over a relatively short period of time, we could experience a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operations require us to comply with numerous regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operations and manufacturing activities are governed by international, regional transnational and national laws and regulations in every place where we operate relating to matters such as environmental, health and safety, labor and employment, import/export control, currency exchange, bribery and corruption and taxation. these laws and regulations are complex, frequently change and have tended to become more stringent over time. in the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our international operations are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), the u.k. bribery act of 2010 (the bribery act ), the brazilian anti-bribery act (also known as the brazilian clean company act) and economic and trade sanctions, including those administered by the united nations, the european union, the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury ( u.s. treasury ) and the u.s. department of state. the fcpa prohibits providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. we may deal with both governments and state-owned business enterprises, the 20 employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the fcpa. the provisions of the bribery act extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and are more onerous than the fcpa in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. economic and trade sanctions restrict our transactions or dealings with certain sanctioned countries, territories and designated persons. as a result of doing business in foreign countries, including through partners and agents, we will be exposed to a risk of violating anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations. some of the international locations in which we will operate have developing legal systems and may have higher levels of corruption than more developed nations. our continued expansion and worldwide operations, including in developing countries, our development of joint venture relationships worldwide and the employment of local agents in the countries in which we operate increases the risk of violations of anti-corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions. violations of anti-corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts (and termination of existing contracts) and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. in addition, any major violations could have a significant impact on our reputation and consequently on our ability to win future business. while we believe we have a strong compliance program, including procedures to minimize and detect fraud in a timely manner, and continue efforts to improve our systems of internal controls, we can provide no assurance that the policies and procedures will be followed at all times or will effectively detect and prevent violations of the applicable laws by one or more of our employees, consultants, agents or partners, and, as a result, we could be subject to penalties and material adverse consequences on our business, financial condition or results of operations. compliance with environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. environmental laws and regulations in various countries affect the equipment, systems and services we design, market and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems. we are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations and believe that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, or the issuance of orders enjoining our operations. these laws and regulations, as well as the adoption of new legal requirements or other laws and regulations affecting exploration and development of drilling for crude oil and natural gas, could adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing our costs, limiting the demand for our products and services or restricting our operations. disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect our business or results of operations. we operate in various countries across the world. instability and unforeseen changes in any of the markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas such as north africa, west africa, the middle east, and the commonwealth of independent states, could have an adverse effect on the demand for our services and products, our financial condition or our results of operations. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: nationalization and expropriation; potentially burdensome taxation; inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets; civil unrest, labor issues, political instability, terrorist attacks, cyber-terrorism, military activity and wars; supply disruptions in key oil producing countries; the ability of opec to set and maintain production levels and pricing; trade restrictions, trade protection measures or price controls; sanctions, such as restrictions by the united states against countries deemed to sponsor terrorism; foreign ownership restrictions; import or export licensing requirements; restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws and regulations; regime changes; changes in, and the administration of, treaties, laws and regulations; inability to repatriate income or capital; reductions in the availability of qualified personnel; foreign currency fluctuations or currency restrictions; and fluctuations in the interest rate component of forward foreign currency rates. dtc and euroclear paris may cease to act as depository and clearing agencies for our shares. 21 our shares were issued into the facilities of the depository trust company ( dtc ) with respect to shares listed on the nyse and euroclear with respect to shares listed on euronext paris (dtc and euroclear being referred to as the clearance services ). the clearance services are widely used mechanisms that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in their respective systems, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. the clearance services have general discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agencies for our shares. if either of the clearance services determine at any time that our shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within its facilities, then we believe that our shares would not be eligible for continued listing on the nyse or euronext paris, as applicable, and trading in our shares would be disrupted. while we would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve the listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our shares. the results of the united kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. we are based in the united kingdom and have operational headquarters in paris, france; houston, texas, usa; and in london, united kingdom, with worldwide operations, including material business operations in europe. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the united kingdom elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum ( brexit ). the referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the united kingdom formally initiated its withdrawal process in the first quarter of 2017. nevertheless, brexit has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union and has given rise to calls for certain regions within the united kingdom to preserve their place in the european union by separating from the united kingdom as well as for the governments of other e.u. member states to consider withdrawal. these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of the global financial markets and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. asset valuations, currency exchange rates and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility. lack of clarity about applicable future laws, regulations or treaties as the united kingdom negotiates the terms of a withdrawal, as well as the operation of any such rules pursuant to any withdrawal terms, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws, employment laws and other rules that would apply to us and our subsidiaries, could increase our costs, restrict our access to capital within the united kingdom and the european union, depress economic activity and decrease foreign direct investment in the united kingdom. for example, withdrawal from the european union could, depending on the negotiated terms of withdrawal, eliminate the benefit of certain tax-related e.u. directives currently applicable to u.k. companies such as us, including the parent-subsidiary directive and the interest and royalties directive, which could, subject to any relief under an available tax treaty, raise our tax costs. if the united kingdom and the european union are unable to negotiate acceptable withdrawal terms or if other e.u. member states pursue withdrawal, barrier-free access between the united kingdom and other e.u. member states or among the european economic area overall could be diminished or eliminated. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as an english public limited company, we must meet certain additional financial requirements before we may declare dividends or repurchase shares and certain capital structure decisions may require stockholder approval which may limit our flexibility to manage our capital structure. under english law, we will only be able to declare dividends, make distributions or repurchase shares (other than out of the proceeds of a new issuance of shares for that purpose) out of distributable profits. distributable profits are a company's accumulated, realized profits, to the extent that they have not been previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, to the extent that they have not been previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. in addition, as a public limited company incorporated in england and wales, we may only make a distribution if the amount of our net assets is not less than the aggregate of our called-up share capital and non-distributable reserves and if, to the extent that, the distribution does not reduce the amount of those assets to less that that aggregate. following the merger, we capitalized our reserves arising out of the merger by the allotment and issuance by technipfmc of a bonus share, which was paid up using such reserves, such that the amount of such reserves so applied, less the nominal value of the bonus share, applied as share premium and accrued to our share premium account. we implemented a court-approved reduction of our capital by way of a cancellation of the bonus share and share premium account in the amount of $10,177,554,182, which completed on june 29, 2017, in order to create distributable profits to support the payment of possible future dividends or future share repurchases. our articles of association permit us by ordinary resolution of the stockholders to declare dividends, provided that the directors have made a recommendation as to its amount. the dividend shall not exceed the 22 amount recommended by the board of directors. the directors may also decide to pay interim dividends if it appears to them that the profits available for distribution justify the payment. when recommending or declaring payment of a dividend, the directors are required under english law to comply with their duties, including considering our future financial requirements. we may not be able to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our ordinary shares in accordance with our announced intent or at all. the board of directors' determinations regarding dividends and share repurchases will depend on a variety of factors, including our net income, cash flow generated from operations or other sources, liquidity position and potential alternative uses of cash, such as acquisitions, as well as economic conditions and expected future financial results. our ability to declare future dividends and make future share repurchases will depend on our future financial performance, which in turn depends on the successful implementation of our strategy and on financial, competitive, regulatory, technical and other factors, general economic conditions, demand and selling prices for our products and services and other factors specific to our industry or specific projects, many of which are beyond our control. therefore, our ability to generate cash depends on the performance of our operations and could be limited by decreases in our profitability or increases in costs, regulatory changes, capital expenditures or debt servicing requirements. any failure to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our ordinary shares could negatively impact our reputation, harm investor confidence in us, and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. our existing and future debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding debt. we have substantial existing debt. as of december 31, 2017, after giving effect to the merger, our total debt is $3.9 billion . we also have the capacity under our $2.5 billion credit facility and bilateral facilities to incur substantial additional debt. our level of debt could have important consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions and other general partnership purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in an event of default under the terms of those instruments. in the event of such default, the holders of such debt could elect to declare all the amounts outstanding under such instruments to be due and payable. a downgrade in our debt rating could restrict our ability to access the capital markets. the terms of our financing are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. we cannot provide assurance that any of our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, capital structure, planned asset purchases or sales, near- and long-term production growth opportunities, market position, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix, customer and geographic diversification and commodity price levels. a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly to non-investment grade levels, could limit our ability to access the debt capital markets, refinance our existing debt or cause us to refinance or issue debt with less favorable terms and conditions. moreover, our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. an increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing. uninsured claims and litigation against us, including intellectual property litigation, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation, as well as unexpected litigation or proceedings. we have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products or operating environments in which our employees operate, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available. however, our insurance policies are subject to exclusions, limitations and other conditions and may not apply in all cases, for example where willful wrongdoing on our part is alleged. additionally, the nature and amount of that 23 insurance may not be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. additionally, in individual circumstances, certain proceedings or cases may also lead to our formal or informal exclusion from tenders or the revocation or loss of business licenses or permits. our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. in addition, the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs, and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs. the resolution of these claims could require us to enter into license agreements or develop alternative technologies. the development of these technologies or the payment of royalties under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available, or we are not able to develop alternative technologies, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we conduct operations around the world in many different currencies. because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in currencies other than our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in our revenue, costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of our assets and liabilities and related equity. although we do not hedge translation impacts on earnings, we do hedge transaction impacts on margins and earnings where the transaction is not in the functional currency of the business unit. our efforts to minimize our currency exposure through such hedging transactions may not be successful depending on market and business conditions. moreover, certain currencies in which the company trades, specifically currencies in countries such as angola and nigeria, do not actively trade in the global foreign exchange markets and may subject us to increased foreign currency exposures. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may not realize the cost savings, synergies and other benefits expected from the merger. the combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of technip and fmc technologies. the integration process may disrupt our businesses and, if ineffectively implemented, could preclude realization of the full benefits expected from the merger. our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of technip and fmc technologies or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could cause an interruption of our operations and could seriously harm our results of operations. in addition, the overall integration of technip and fmc technologies may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client relationships and diversion of management's attention, and may cause our stock prices to decline. the difficulties of combining the operations of technip and fmc technologies include, but are not limited to, the following: managing a significantly larger company; coordinating geographically separate organizations; the potential diversion of management focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters; aligning and executing our strategy; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees; integrating two unique business cultures, which may prove to be incompatible; the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; coordinating distribution and marketing efforts; integrating it, communications and other systems; changes in applicable laws and regulations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations; unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the merger; and taking actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals. many of these factors will be outside our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if the operations of technip and fmc technologies are successfully integrated, we may not realize the full benefits of the merger, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. as a result, the combination of technip and fmc technologies may not result in the realization of the full benefits expected from the merger. we may incur significant merger-related costs. 24 we have incurred and expect to incur many non-recurring direct and indirect costs associated with the merger. in addition to the cost and expenses associated with the consummation of the merger, there are also processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the merger and the integration of technip and fmc technologies. while both technip and fmc technologies have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred relating to the merger and continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses. there may also be significant additional unanticipated costs relating to the merger that we may not recoup. these costs and expenses could reduce the realization of efficiencies and strategic benefits we expect to achieve from the merger. although we expect that these benefits will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all. a failure of our it infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. the efficient operation of our business is dependent on our it systems. accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our it hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to changing needs. despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, increasingly sophisticated cyber security threats such as unauthorized access to data and systems, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), phishing, cyber attacks, human error and other similar disruptions. additionally, we rely on third parties to support the operation of our it hardware and software infrastructure, and in certain instances, utilize web-based applications. threats to our it systems arise from numerous sources, not all of which are within our control, including fraud or malice on the part of third parties, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer servers or other damage to our property or assets, or outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. the failure of our it systems or those of our vendors to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, inappropriate disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, reputational harm, increased overhead costs and loss of important information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. the irs may not agree that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes and may seek to impose an excise tax on gains recognized by certain individuals. although we are incorporated in the united kingdom, the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). for u.s. federal income tax purposes, a corporation is generally considered a u.s. domestic corporation (or u.s. tax resident) if it is organized in the united states, and a corporation is generally considered a foreign corporation (or non-u.s. tax resident) if it is not a u.s. domestic corporation. because we are an entity incorporated in england and wales, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (or non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 of the code ( section 7874 ) provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. unless we have satisfied the substantial business activities exception, as defined for purposes of section 7874 and described in more detail below (the substantial business activities exception ), we will be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation (that is, as a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 7874 if the percentage (by vote or value) of our shares considered to be held by former holders of shares of common stock of fmc technologies (the fmcti shares ) after the merger by reason of holding fmcti shares for purposes of section 7874 (the section 7874 percentage ) is (i) 60% or more (if, as expected, the third country rule (defined below) applies) or (ii) 80% or more (if the third country rule does not apply). in order for us to satisfy the substantial business exception, at least 25% of the employees (by headcount and compensation), real and tangible assets and gross income of our expanded affiliated group must be based, located and derived, respectively, in the united kingdom. we do not expect to satisfy the substantial business activities exception. in addition, the irs and the u.s. treasury have issued a rule that generally provides that if (i) there is an acquisition of a domestic company by a foreign company in which the section 7874 percentage is at least 60%, and (ii) in a related acquisition, such foreign acquiring company acquires another foreign corporation and the foreign acquiring company is not subject to tax as a resident in the foreign country in which the acquired foreign corporation was subject to tax as a resident prior to the transactions, then the foreign acquiring company will be treated as a u.s. domestic company for u.s. federal income tax purposes (the third country rule ). because we are a tax resident in the united kingdom and not a tax resident in france as technip was, we 25 expect that we would be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes under the third country rule if the section 7874 percentage were at least 60%. in addition, if the section 7874 percentage is calculated to be at least 60%, section 7874 and the rules related thereto may impose an excise tax under section 4985 of the code (the section 4985 excise tax ) on the gain recognized by certain disqualified individuals (including officers and directors of a u.s. company) on certain stock-based compensation held thereby at a rate equal to 15%, even if the third country rule were to apply such that we were treated as a u.s. domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. we may, if we determine that it is appropriate, provide disqualified individuals with a payment with respect to the excise tax, so that, on a net after-tax basis, they would be in the same position as if no such excise tax had been applied. we believe that the section 7874 percentage was less than 60% such that the third country rule is not expected to apply to us and the section 4985 excise tax is not expected to apply to any such disqualified individuals. however, the calculation of the section 7874 percentage is complex and is subject to detailed u.s. treasury regulations (the application of which is uncertain in various respects and would be impacted by changes in such u.s. treasury regulations). in addition, there can be no assurance that there will not be a change in law, including with retroactive effect, which might cause us to be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. accordingly, we cannot assure you that the irs will agree with our position and/or would not successfully challenge our status as a foreign corporation. u.s. tax laws and/or irs guidance could affect our ability to engage in certain acquisition strategies and certain internal restructurings. even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, section 7874 and u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder may adversely affect our ability to engage in certain future acquisitions of u.s. businesses in exchange for our equity or to otherwise restructure the non-u.s. members of our group, which may affect the tax efficiencies that otherwise might be achieved in such potential future transactions or restructurings. in addition, the irs and the u.s. treasury have issued final and temporary regulations providing that, even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, certain intercompany debt instruments issued on or after april 4, 2016 will be treated as equity for u.s. federal income tax purposes, therefore limiting u.s. tax benefits and resulting in possible u.s. withholding taxes. although recent guidance from the u.s. treasury states that these rules are the subject of continuing study and may be materially modified, the current regulations may adversely affect our future effective tax rate and could also impact our ability to engage in future restructurings if such transactions cause an existing intercompany debt instrument to be treated as reissued for u.s. federal income tax purposes. we are subject to tax laws of numerous jurisdictions, and challenges to the interpretations of, or future changes to, such laws could adversely affect us. we and our subsidiaries are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united kingdom, the united states, france and numerous other jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries operate. these laws and regulations are inherently complex, and we are and will continue to be obligated to make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws and regulations to our operations and businesses. the interpretation and application of these laws and regulations could be challenged by the relevant governmental authorities, which could result in administrative or judicial procedures, actions or sanctions, which could be material. in addition, the u.s. congress, the u.k. government, the organization for economic co-operation and development, and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example beyond that of the tax cuts and jobs act ( tcja ) is in the area of base erosion and profit shifting where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. thus, the tax laws in the united states, the united kingdom and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a retroactive basis and any such changes could adversely affect us. furthermore, the interpretation and application of domestic or international tax laws made by us and by our subsidiaries could differ from that of the relevant governmental authority, which could result in administrative or judicial procedures, actions or sanctions, which could be material. we may not qualify for benefits under the tax treaties entered into between the united kingdom and other countries. we operate in a manner such that we believe we are eligible for benefits under the tax treaties between the united kingdom and other countries, notably the united states. however, our ability to qualify for such benefits will depend on whether we are treated as a u.k. tax resident and upon the requirements contained in each treaty and the applicable domestic laws, as the case may be, on the facts and circumstances surrounding our operations and management, and on the relevant interpretation of the 26 tax authorities and courts. the failure by us or our subsidiaries to qualify for benefits under the tax treaties entered into between the united kingdom and other countries could result in adverse tax consequences to us and could result in certain tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. we intend to operate to be treated exclusively as a resident of the united kingdom for tax purposes, but french or other tax authorities may seek to treat us as a tax resident of another jurisdiction. we are incorporated in england and wales. english law currently provides that we will be regarded as being a u.k. resident for tax purposes from incorporation and shall remain so unless (i) we are concurrently a resident in another jurisdiction (applying the tax residence rules of that jurisdiction) that has a double tax treaty with the united kingdom and (ii) there is a tiebreaker provision in that tax treaty which allocates exclusive residence to that other jurisdiction. in this regard, we have a permanent establishment in france to satisfy certain french tax requirements imposed by the french tax code with respect to the merger. although it is intended that we will be treated as having our exclusive place of tax residence in the united kingdom, the french tax authorities may claim that we are a tax resident of france if we were to fail to maintain our place of effective management in the united kingdom due to the french tax authorities having deemed that certain strategic decisions of technipfmc have been taken at the level of our french permanent establishment rather than in the united kingdom. any such claim would need to be settled between the french and the u.k. tax authorities pursuant to the mutual assistance procedure provided for by the tax treaty dated june 19, 2008 concluded between france and the united kingdom, and there is no assurance that these authorities would reach an agreement that we will remain exclusively a u.k. tax resident, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. a failure to maintain exclusive tax residency in the united kingdom could result in adverse tax consequences to us and our subsidiaries and could result in different tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to financial market risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. in order to manage and mitigate our exposure to these risks, we may use derivative financial instruments in accordance with established policies and procedures. we do not use derivative financial instruments where the objective is to generate profits solely from trading activities. at december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016, substantially all of our derivative holdings consisted of foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency instruments embedded in purchase and sale contracts. these forward-looking disclosures only address potential impacts from market risks as they affect our financial instruments and do not include other potential effects that could impact our business as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices or equity prices. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct operations around the world in a number of different currencies. many of our significant foreign subsidiaries have designated the local currency as their functional currency. our earnings are therefore subject to change due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates when the earnings in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars. we do not hedge this translation impact on earnings. a 10% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all foreign currencies at december 31, 2017 , would have changed our revenue and income before income taxes attributable to technipfmc by approximately $903.4 million and $47.6 million, respectively. when transactions are denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries' respective functional currencies, we manage these exposures through the use of derivative instruments. we primarily use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the foreign currency fluctuation associated with firmly committed and forecasted foreign currency denominated payments and receipts. the derivative instruments associated with these anticipated transactions are usually designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, and as such the gains and losses associated with these instruments are recorded in other comprehensive income until such time that the underlying transactions are recognized. unless these cash flow contracts are deemed to be ineffective or are not designated as cash flow hedges at inception, changes in the derivative fair value will not have an immediate impact on our results of operations since the gains and losses associated with these instruments are recorded in other comprehensive income. when the anticipated transactions occur, these changes in value of derivative instrument positions will be offset against changes in the value of the underlying transaction. when an anticipated transaction in a currency other than the functional currency of an entity is recognized as an asset or liability on the balance sheet, we also hedge the foreign currency fluctuation of these assets and liabilities with derivative instruments after netting our exposures worldwide. these derivative instruments do not qualify as cash flow hedges. occasionally, we enter into contracts or other arrangements containing terms and conditions that qualify as embedded derivative instruments and are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. in those situations, we enter into derivative foreign exchange contracts that hedge the price or cost fluctuations due to movements in the foreign exchange rates. these derivative instruments are not designated as cash flow hedges. for our foreign currency forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that are accounted for as cash flow hedges, a 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar would result in an additional loss of $25.6 million in the net fair value of cash flow hedges reflected in our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2017. interest rate risk at december 31, 2017, we had commercial paper of approximately $1.5 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 0.56%. using sensitivity analysis to measure the impact of a 10% adverse movement in the interest rate, or nine basis points, would result in an increase to interest expense of $20.7 million. we assess effectiveness of forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges based on changes in fair value attributable to changes in spot rates. we exclude the impact attributable to changes in the difference between the spot rate and the forward rate for the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize the change in fair value of this component immediately in earnings. considering that the difference between the spot rate and the forward rate is proportional to the differences in the interest rates of the countries of the currencies being traded, we have exposure in the unrealized valuation of our forward foreign currency contracts to relative changes in interest rates between countries in our results of operations. to the extent any one interest rate increases by 10% across all tenors and other countries' interest rates remain fixed, and assuming no change in discount rates, we would expect to recognize a decrease of $0.3 million in unrealized earnings in the period of change. based on our portfolio as of december 31, 2017 , we have material positions with exposure to interest rates in the united states, canada, australia, brazil, the united kingdom, singapore, the european community and norway. 52risk factors 21 risk factors important risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec. we operate in a highly competitive environment and unanticipated changes relating to competitive factors in our industry, including ongoing industry consolidation, may impact our results of operations. we compete on the basis of a number of different factors, such as product offerings, project execution, customer service, and price. in order to compete effectively we must develop and implement innovative technologies and processes, and execute our clients' projects effectively. we can give no assurances that we will continue to be able to compete effectively with the products and services or prices offered by our competitors. our industry, including our customers and competitors, has experienced unanticipated changes in recent years. moreover, the industry is undergoing vertical and horizontal consolidation to create economies of scale and control the value chain, which may affect demand for our products and services because of price concessions for our competitors or decreased customer capital spending. this consolidation activity could impact our ability to maintain market share, maintain or increase pricing for our products and services or negotiate favorable contract terms with our customers and suppliers, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we are unable to predict what effect consolidations and other competitive factors in the industry may have on prices, capital spending by our customers, our selling strategies, our competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with our customers. demand for our products and services depends on oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in the demand for and price of crude oil and natural gas. we are substantially dependent on conditions in the oil and gas industry, including (i) the level of exploration, development and production activity, (ii) capital spending, and (iii) the processing of oil and natural gas in refining units, petrochemical sites, and natural gas liquefaction plants by energy companies that are our customers. any substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the reduced pace of discovery and development of new reserves of oil and gas and the reduced exploration of existing wells, which could adversely affect demand for our products and services and, in certain instances, result in the cancellation, modification, or re-scheduling of existing orders in our backlog. these factors could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. the level of exploration, development, and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates, and general economic and business conditions; costs of exploring for, producing, and delivering oil and natural gas; political and economic uncertainty, and socio-political unrest; government policies and subsidies related to the production, use, and exportation/importation of oil and natural gas; available excess production capacity within the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and the level of oil production by non-opec countries; oil refining and transportation capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; development, exploitation, and relative price, and availability of alternative sources of energy and our customers' shift of capital to the development of these sources; volatility in, and access to, capital and credit markets, which may affect our customers' activity levels, and spending for our products and services; and 21 natural disasters. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. while oil and natural gas prices have recently started to rebound from the downturn that began in 2014, the market remains quite volatile and the sustainability of the price recovery and business activity levels is dependent on variables beyond our control, such as geopolitical stability, opec's actions to regulate its production capacity, changes in demand patterns, and international sanctions and tariffs. continued volatility or any future reduction in demand for oilfield services and could further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our success depends on our ability to develop, implement, and protect new technologies and services. our success depends on the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs, including the processes used by us to produce and market our products, and on our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. if we are not able to obtain patent, trade secret or other protection of our intellectual property rights, if our patents are unenforceable or the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, or if we are not able to adequately protect our patents or trade secrets, we may not be able to continue to develop our services, products and related technologies. additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop technology that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. if any of these events occurs, we may be unable to meet evolving industry requirements or do so at prices acceptable to our customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the industries in which we operate or have operated expose us to potential liabilities, including the installation or use of our products, which may not be covered by insurance or may be in excess of policy limits, or for which expected recoveries may not be realized. we are subject to potential liabilities arising from, among other possibilities, equipment malfunctions, equipment misuse, personal injuries, and natural disasters, any of which may result in hazardous situations, including uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires, and explosions. although we have obtained insurance against many of these risks, our insurance may not be adequate to cover our liabilities. further, the insurance may not generally be available in the future or, if available, premiums may not be commercially justifiable. if we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, such potential liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may lose money on fixed-price contracts. as customary for some of our projects, we often agree to provide products and services under fixed-price contracts. we are subject to material risks in connection with such fixed-price contracts. it is not possible to estimate with complete certainty the final cost or margin of a project at the time of bidding or during the early phases of its execution. actual expenses incurred in executing these fixed-price contracts can vary substantially from those originally anticipated for several reasons including, but not limited to, the following: unforeseen additional costs related to the purchase of substantial equipment necessary for contract fulfillment or labor shortages in the markets for where the contracts are performed; mechanical failure of our production equipment and machinery; delays caused by local weather conditions and/or natural disasters (including earthquakes and floods); and a failure of suppliers, subcontractors, or joint venture partners to perform their contractual obligations. the realization of any material risks and unforeseen circumstances could also lead to delays in the execution schedule of a project. we may be held liable to a customer should we fail to meet project milestones or deadlines or to comply with other contractual provisions. additionally, delays in certain projects could lead to delays in subsequent projects for which production equipment and machinery currently being utilized on a project were intended. pursuant to the terms of fixed-price contracts, we are not always able to increase the price of the contract to reflect factors that were unforeseen at the time its bid was submitted, and this risk may be heightened for projects with 22 longer terms. depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance, or variations in multiple contracts, could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. new capital asset construction projects for vessels and manufacturing facilities are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, or results of operations. we regularly carry out capital asset construction projects to maintain, upgrade, and develop our asset base, and such projects are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns that are inherent to any large construction project, and are the result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, the following: shortages of key equipment, materials or skilled labor; unscheduled delays in the delivery or ordered materials and equipment; design and engineering issues; and shipyard delays and performance issues. failure to complete construction in time, or the inability to complete construction in accordance with its design specifications, may result in loss of revenue. additionally, capital expenditures for construction projects could materially exceed the initially planned investments or can result in delays in putting such assets into operation. our failure to timely deliver our backlog could affect future sales, profitability, and relationships with our customers. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times due to complex technical and logistical requirements. these contracts may contain clauses related to liquidated damages or financial incentives regarding on-time delivery, and a failure by us to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to liquidated damages or loss of financial incentives, reduce our margins on these contracts, or result in damage to existing customer relationships. the ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, subcontractor performance, project engineering expertise and execution, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance. we face risks relating to our reliance on subcontractors, suppliers, and our joint venture partners. we generally rely on subcontractors, suppliers, and our joint venture partners for the performance of our contracts. although we are not dependent upon any single supplier, certain geographic areas of our business or a project or group of projects may depend heavily on certain suppliers for raw materials or semi-finished goods. any difficulty in engaging suitable subcontractors or acquiring equipment and materials could compromise our ability to generate a significant margin on a project or to complete such project within the allocated timeframe. if subcontractors, suppliers or joint venture partners refuse to adhere to their contractual obligations with us or are unable to do so due to a deterioration of their financial condition, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement at a comparable price, or at all. moreover, the failure of one of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations in a timely and satisfactory manner could lead to additional obligations and costs being imposed on us as we may be obligated to assume our defaulting partner's obligations or compensate our customers. any delay, failure to meet contractual obligations, or other event beyond our control or not foreseeable by us, that is attributable to a subcontractor, supplier or joint venture partner, could lead to delays in the overall progress of the project and/or generate significant extra costs. even if we are entitled to make a claim for these extra costs against the defaulting supplier, subcontractor or joint venture partner, we may be unable to recover the entirety of these costs and this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our businesses are dependent on the continuing services of certain of our key managers and employees. we depend on key personnel. the loss of any key personnel could adversely impact our business if we are unable to implement key strategies or transactions in their absence. the loss of qualified employees or failure to retain and 23 motivate additional highly-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to successfully conduct research activities and develop marketable products and services. pirates endanger our maritime employees and assets. we face material piracy risks in the gulf of guinea, the somali basin, and the gulf of aden, and, to a lesser extent, in southeast asia, malacca, and the singapore straits. piracy represents a risk for both our projects and our vessels, which operate and transport through sensitive maritime areas. such risks have the potential to significantly harm our crews and to negatively impact the execution schedule for our projects. if our maritime employees or assets are endangered, additional time may be required to find an alternative solution, which may delay project realization and negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. seasonal and weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our services and operations. our business may be materially affected by variation from normal weather patterns, such as cooler or warmer summers and winters. adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the gulf of mexico or extreme winter conditions in canada, russia, and the north sea, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers' operations, cause supply disruptions or loss of productivity, and may result in a loss of revenue or damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. any of these events or outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations. due to the types of contracts we enter into and the markets in which we operate, the cumulative loss of several major contracts, customers, or alliances may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we often enter into large, long-term contracts that, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue. these agreements, if terminated or breached, may have a larger impact on our operating results or our financial condition than shorter-term contracts due to the value at risk. moreover, the global market for the production, transportation, and transformation of hydrocarbons and by-products, as well as the other industrial markets in which we operate, is dominated by a small number of companies. as a result, our business relies on a limited number of customers. if we were to lose several key contracts, customers, or alliances over a relatively short period of time, we could experience a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations require us to comply with numerous regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations and manufacturing activities are governed by international, regional, transnational, and national laws and regulations in every place where we operate relating to matters such as environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, import/export controls, currency exchange, bribery and corruption, and taxation. these laws and regulations are complex, frequently change, and have tended to become more stringent over time. in the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our international operations are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), the u.k. bribery act of 2010 (the bribery act ), the anti-corruption provisions of french law n 2016-1691 dated december 9, 2016 relating to transparency, anti-corruption and modernization of the business practice ( sapin ii law ), the brazilian anti-bribery act (also known as the brazilian clean company act), and economic and trade sanctions, including those administered by the united nations, the european union, the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury ( u.s. treasury ), and the u.s. department of state. the fcpa prohibits providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. we may deal with both governments and state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the fcpa. the provisions of the bribery act extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and are more onerous than the fcpa in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments, and penalties. economic and trade sanctions restrict our transactions or dealings with certain sanctioned countries, territories, and designated persons. as a result of doing business in foreign countries, including through partners and agents, we are exposed to a risk of violating anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations. some of the international locations in which we currently or may, in the future, operate, have developing legal systems and may have higher levels of corruption than more developed nations. our continued expansion and worldwide operations, including in developing countries, our development of joint venture relationships worldwide, and the employment of local agents in the countries in which 24 we operate increases the risk of violations of anti-corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions. violations of anti-corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts (and termination of existing contracts), and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. in addition, any major violations could have a significant impact on our reputation and consequently on our ability to win future business. we have implemented internal controls designed to minimize and detect potential violations of laws and regulations in a timely manner but we can provide no assurance that such policies and procedures will be followed at all times or will effectively detect and prevent violations of the applicable laws by one or more of our employees, consultants, agents, or partners. the occurrence of any such violation could subject us to penalties and material adverse consequences on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. compliance with environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. environmental laws and regulations in various countries affect the equipment, systems, and services we design, market, and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems, and any other operations we undertake. we are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and believe that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the issuance of orders enjoining our operations, or other claims. these laws and regulations, as well as the adoption of new legal requirements or other laws and regulations affecting exploration and development of drilling for crude oil and natural gas, are becoming increasingly strict and could adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing our costs, limiting the demand for our products and services, or restricting our operations. existing or future laws and regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change may adversely affect our business. existing or future laws concerning the release of greenhouse gas emissions or that concern climate change (including laws and regulations that seek to mitigate the effects of climate change) may adversely impact demand for the equipment, systems and services we design, market and sell. for example, oil and natural gas exploration and production may decline as a result of such laws and regulations and as a consequence demand for our equipment, systems and services may also decline. in addition, such laws and regulations may also result in more onerous obligations with respect to our operations, including the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems. such decline in demand for our equipment, systems and services and such onerous obligations in respect of our operations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic, and social conditions of the countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect our business or results of operations. we operate in various countries across the world. instability and unforeseen changes in any of the markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for our services and products, our financial condition, or our results of operations. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: nationalization and expropriation; potentially burdensome taxation; inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets; civil unrest, labor issues, political instability, terrorist attacks, cyber-terrorism, military activity, and wars; supply disruptions in key oil producing countries; the ability of opec to set and maintain production levels and pricing; trade restrictions, trade protection measures, price controls, or trade disputes; 25 sanctions, such as prohibitions or restrictions by the united states against countries that are the targets of economic sanctions, or are designated as state sponsors of terrorism; foreign ownership restrictions; import or export licensing requirements; restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners, and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws, and regulations; regime changes; changes in, and the administration of, treaties, laws, and regulations; inability to repatriate income or capital; reductions in the availability of qualified personnel; foreign currency fluctuations or currency restrictions; and fluctuations in the interest rate component of forward foreign currency rates. dtc and euroclear paris may cease to act as depository and clearing agencies for our shares. our shares were issued into the facilities of the depository trust company ( dtc ) with respect to shares listed on the nyse and euroclear with respect to shares listed on euronext paris (dtc and euroclear being referred to as the clearance services ). the clearance services are widely used mechanisms that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in their respective systems, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. the clearance services have general discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agencies for our shares. if either of the clearance services determine at any time that our shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within its facilities, then we believe that our shares would not be eligible for continued listing on the nyse or euronext paris, as applicable, and trading in our shares would be disrupted. any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our shares. the united kingdom's proposed withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets, and our business. we are based in the united kingdom and have operational headquarters in paris, france; houston, texas, united states; and in london, united kingdom, with worldwide operations, including material business operations in europe. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the united kingdom elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum ( brexit ). the referendum was advisory, and the united kingdom government served notice under article 50 of the treaty of the european union in march 2017 to formally initiate a withdrawal process. the united kingdom and the european union have had a two-year period under article 50 to negotiate the terms for the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. the withdrawal agreement and political declaration that were endorsed at a special meeting of the european council on november 25, 2018 did not receive the approval of the united kingdom parliament in january 2019. further discussions are ongoing, although the european commission has stated that the european union will not reopen the withdrawal agreement. any extension of the negotiation period for withdrawal will require the consent of the remaining 27 member states of the european union. brexit has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union and has given rise to calls for certain regions within the united kingdom to preserve their place in the european union by separating from the united kingdom. these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of the global financial markets and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. asset valuations, currency exchange rates, and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility. lack of clarity about applicable future laws, regulations, or treaties as the united kingdom negotiates the terms of a withdrawal, as well as the operation of any such rules pursuant to any withdrawal terms, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws, employment laws, and other rules that would apply to us and our subsidiaries, could increase our costs, restrict our access to capital within the united kingdom and the european union, depress economic activity, and further decrease foreign direct investment in the united kingdom. for 26 example, withdrawal from the european union could, depending on the negotiated terms of such withdrawal, eliminate the benefit of certain tax-related e.u. directives currently applicable to u.k. companies such as us, including the parent-subsidiary directive and the interest and royalties directive, which could, subject to any relief under an available tax treaty, raise our tax costs. if the united kingdom and the european union are unable to negotiate mutually acceptable withdrawal terms or if other e.u. member states pursue withdrawal, barrier-free access between the united kingdom and other e.u. member states or within the european economic area overall could be diminished or eliminated. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. as an english public limited company, we must meet certain additional financial requirements before we may declare dividends or repurchase shares and certain capital structure decisions may require stockholder approval which may limit our flexibility to manage our capital structure. we may not be able to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our ordinary shares in accordance with our announced intent, or at all. under english law, we will only be able to declare dividends, make distributions, or repurchase shares (other than out of the proceeds of a new issuance of shares for that purpose) out of distributable profits. distributable profits are a company's accumulated, realized profits, to the extent that they have not been previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, to the extent that they have not been previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. in addition, as a public limited company incorporated in england and wales, we may only make a distribution if the amount of our net assets is not less than the aggregate of our called-up share capital and non-distributable reserves and to the extent that the distribution does not reduce the amount of those assets to less than that aggregate. following the merger, we implemented a court-approved reduction of our capital, which was completed on june 29, 2017, in order to create distributable profits to support the payment of possible future dividends or future share repurchases. our articles of association permit us by ordinary resolution of the stockholders to declare dividends, provided that the directors have made a recommendation as to its amount. the dividend shall not exceed the amount recommended by the board of directors. the directors may also decide to pay interim dividends if it appears to them that the profits available for distribution justify the payment. when recommending or declaring payment of a dividend, the directors are required under english law to comply with their duties, including considering our future financial requirements. in addition, the board of directors' determinations regarding dividends and share repurchases will depend on a variety of other factors, including our net income, cash flow generated from operations or other sources, liquidity position, and potential alternative uses of cash, such as acquisitions, as well as economic conditions and expected future financial results. our ability to declare and pay future dividends and make future share repurchases will depend on our future financial performance, which in turn depends on the successful implementation of our strategy and on financial, competitive, regulatory, technical, and other factors, general economic conditions, demand and selling prices for our products and services, and other factors specific to our industry or specific projects, many of which are beyond our control. therefore, our ability to generate cash depends on the performance of our operations and could be limited by decreases in our profitability or increases in costs, regulatory changes, capital expenditures, or debt servicing requirements. any failure to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our ordinary shares could negatively impact our reputation, harm investor confidence in us, and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. our existing and future debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding debt. we have substantial existing debt. as of december 31, 2018 , after giving effect to the merger, our total debt is $4.2 billion . we also have the capacity under our $2.5 billion credit facility, in addition to our bilateral facilities to incur substantial additional debt. our level of debt could have important consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions, and other general partnership purposes; 27 increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt or to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in an event of default under the terms of those instruments. in the event of such default, the holders of such debt could elect to declare all the amounts outstanding under such instruments to be due and payable. the london inter-bank offered rate ( libor ) and certain other interest benchmarks may be subject to regulatory guidance and/or reform that could cause interest rates under our current or future debt agreements to perform differently than in the past or cause other unanticipated consequences. the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, has announced that it intends to stop encouraging or requiring banks to submit libor rates after 2021, and it is unclear if libor will cease to exist or if new methods of calculating libor will evolve. if libor ceases to exist or if the methods of calculating libor change from their current form, interest rates on our current or future debt obligations may be adversely affected. a downgrade in our debt rating could restrict our ability to access the capital markets. the terms of our financing are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. we cannot provide assurance that any of our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, capital structure, planned asset purchases or sales, near- and long-term production growth opportunities, market position, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix, customer and geographic diversification, and commodity price levels. a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly to non-investment grade levels, could limit our ability to access the debt capital markets or refinance our existing debt or cause us to refinance or issue debt with less favorable terms and conditions. moreover, our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. an increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing, as well as have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. uninsured claims and litigation against us, including intellectual property litigation, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation, as well as unexpected litigation or proceedings. we have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products or operating environments in which our employees operate, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available. however, our insurance policies are subject to exclusions, limitations, and other conditions and may not apply in all cases, for example where willful wrongdoing on our part is alleged. additionally, the nature and amount of that insurance may not be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. additionally, in individual circumstances, certain proceedings or cases may also lead to our formal or informal exclusion from tenders or the revocation or loss of business licenses or permits. our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. in addition, the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs, and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs. the resolution of these claims could require us to enter into license agreements or develop alternative technologies. the development of these technologies or the payment of royalties under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available, or we are not able to develop alternative technologies, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 28 currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we conduct operations around the world in many different currencies. because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in currencies other than our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in our revenue, costs, and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets and liabilities and related equity. although we do not hedge translation impacts on earnings, we do hedge transaction impacts on margins and earnings where the transaction is not in the functional currency of the business unit. our efforts to minimize our currency exposure through such hedging transactions may not be successful depending on market and business conditions. moreover, certain currencies in which the company trades, specifically currencies in countries such as angola and nigeria, do not actively trade in the global foreign exchange markets and may subject us to increased foreign currency exposures. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we may incur significant merger-related costs. we have incurred and expect to incur additional non-recurring direct and indirect costs associated with the merger. in addition to the costs and expenses associated with the consummation of the merger, we are also integrating processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems. while we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred relating to the merger and continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses. these costs and expenses could reduce the realization of efficiencies and strategic benefits we expect to achieve from the merger, and the expected net benefit of the merger may not be achieved in the near term or at all. our acquisition and divestiture activities involve substantial risks. we have made and expect to continue to pursue acquisitions, dispositions, or other investments that may strategically fit our business and/or growth objectives. we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to locate suitable acquisitions, dispositions, or investments, or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. even if we do successfully execute such transactions, they may not result in anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. if we are unable to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including any expected increases in revenues and operating results. we may not be able to successfully cause a buyer of a divested business to assume the liabilities of that business or, even if such liabilities are assumed, we may have difficulties enforcing our rights, contractual or otherwise, against the buyer. we may invest in companies or businesses that fail, causing a loss of all or part of our investment. in addition, if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for a company in which we have invested, we may have to write down that investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. a failure of our it infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. the efficient operation of our business is dependent on our it systems. accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability, and security of our it hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to changing needs. we have been subject to cyber attacks in the past, including phishing, malware, and ransomware, and although no such attack has had a material adverse effect on our business, this may not be the case with future attacks. our systems may be vulnerable to damages from such attacks, as well as from natural disasters, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, unauthorized access to data and systems, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), human error, and other similar disruptions, and we cannot give assurance that any security measures we have implemented or may in the future implement will be sufficient to identify and prevent or mitigate such disruptions. we rely on third parties to support the operation of our it hardware, software infrastructure, and cloud services, and in certain instances, utilize web-based and software-as-a-service applications. the security and privacy measures implemented by such third parties, as well as the measures implemented by any entities we acquire or with whom we do business, may not be sufficient to identify or prevent cyber attacks, and any such attacks may have a material adverse effect on our business. while our it vendor agreements typically contain provisions that seek to eliminate or limit our exposure to liability for damages from a cyber-attack, we cannot ensure such provisions will withstand legal challenges or cover all or any such damages. 29 threats to our it systems arise from numerous sources, not all of which are within our control, including fraud or malice on the part of third parties, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer servers or other damage to our property or assets, outbreaks of hostilities, or terrorist acts. the failure of our it systems or those of our vendors to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, inappropriate disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, reputational harm, increased overhead costs, and loss of important information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. our insurance coverage may not cover all of the costs and liabilities we incur as the result of any disruptions or security breaches, and if our business continuity and/or disaster recovery plans do not effectively and timely resolve issues resulting from a cyber-attack, we may suffer material adverse effects on our business. we are subject to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, data protection, and data security. our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. we are subject to international data protection laws, such as the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, in the european economic area. the gdpr imposes several stringent requirements for controllers and processors of personal data which have increased our obligations, including, for example, by requiring more robust disclosures to individuals, notifications, in some cases, of data breaches to regulators and data subjects, and a record of processing and other policies and procedures to be maintained to adhere to the accountability principle. in addition, we are subject to the gdpr's rules on transferring personal data outside of the eea (including to the united states), and some of these rules are currently being challenged in the courts. failure to comply with the requirements of gdpr and the local laws implementing or supplementing the gdpr could result in fines of up to 20,000,000 or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, as well as other administrative penalties. we are likely to be required to expend significant capital and other resources to ensure ongoing compliance with the gdpr and other applicable data protection legislation, and we may be required to put in place additional control mechanisms which could be onerous and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. we may not realize the cost savings, synergies, and other benefits expected from the merger. the combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to continue to devote management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of technip and fmc technologies. the integration process may disrupt our businesses and, if ineffectively implemented, could preclude realization of the full benefits expected from the merger. our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of technip and fmc technologies or otherwise realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could interrupt, and seriously harm the results of, our operations. in addition, the overall integration of technip and fmc technologies may result in unanticipated expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client relationships, diversion of management's attention, or other problems, and such problems could, if material, cause our stock price to decline. the difficulties of combining the operations of technip and fmc technologies include, but are not limited to, the following: managing a significantly larger company; coordinating geographically separate organizations; the potential diversion of management focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters; aligning and executing our strategy; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees; integrating two unique business cultures, the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; 30 coordinating distribution and marketing efforts; integrating it, communications, and other systems; changes in applicable laws and regulations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations; unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the merger; and taking actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals. many of these factors are at least partially outside our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, even if the operations of technip and fmc technologies are successfully integrated, we may not realize the full benefits of the merger, including the synergies, cost savings, sales, or growth opportunities that we expect. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. as a result, the combination of technip and fmc technologies may not result in the realization of the full benefits expected from the merger. the irs may not agree that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes and may seek to impose an excise tax on gains recognized by certain individuals. although we are incorporated in the united kingdom, the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). for u.s. federal income tax purposes, a corporation (i) is generally considered a domestic corporation (or u.s. tax resident) if it is organized in the united states or of any state or political subdivision therein, and (ii) is generally considered a foreign corporation (or non-u.s. tax resident) if it is not considered a domestic corporation. because we are a u.k. incorporated entity, we would be considered a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 of the code ( section 7874 ) provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. we do not believe this exception applies. however, the section 7874 rules are complex and subject to detailed regulations, the application of which is uncertain in various respects. it is possible that the irs will not agree with our position. should the irs successfully challenge our position, it is also possible that an excise tax under section 4985 of the code (the section 4985 excise tax ) may be assessed against certain disqualified individuals (including former officers and directors of fmc technologies, inc.) on certain stock-based compensation held thereby. we may, if we determine that it is appropriate, provide disqualified individuals with a payment with respect to the section 4985 excise tax, so that, on a net after-tax basis, they would be in the same position as if no such section 4985 excise tax had been applied. in addition, there can be no assurance that there will not be a change in law or interpretation, including with retroactive effect, that might cause us to be treated as a domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. u.s. tax laws and/or guidance could affect our ability to engage in certain acquisition strategies and certain internal restructurings. even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, section 7874, u.s. treasury regulations, and other guidance promulgated thereunder may adversely affect our ability to engage in certain future acquisitions of u.s. businesses or to restructure the non-u.s. members of our group. these limitations, if applicable, may affect the tax efficiencies that otherwise might be achieved in such potential future transactions or restructurings. in addition, the irs and the u.s. treasury have issued final and temporary regulations providing that, even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, certain intercompany debt instruments issued on or after april 4, 2016 will be treated as equity for u.s. federal income tax purposes, therefore limiting u.s. tax benefits and resulting in possible u.s. withholding taxes. although recent guidance from the u.s. treasury proposes deferring certain documentation requirements that would otherwise be imposed with respect to covered debt instruments, and further indicates that these rules generally are the subject of continuing study and may be further materially modified, the current regulations may adversely affect our future effective tax rate and could also 31 impact our ability to engage in future restructurings if such transactions cause an existing intercompany debt instrument to be treated as reissued for u.s. federal income tax purposes. we are subject to the tax laws of numerous jurisdictions; challenges to the interpretation of, or future changes to, such laws could adversely affect us. we and our subsidiaries are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united kingdom, the united states, france, and numerous other jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries operate. these laws and regulations are inherently complex, and we are, and will continue to be, obligated to make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws and regulations to our operations and businesses. the interpretation and application of these laws and regulations could be challenged by the relevant governmental authorities, which could result in administrative or judicial procedures, actions, or sanctions, which could be material. in addition, the u.s. congress, the u.k. government, the european union, the organization for economic co-operation and development (the oecd ), and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. new tax initiatives, directives, and rules, such as the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act, the oecd's base erosion and profit shifting initiative, and the european union's anti-tax avoidance directives, may increase our tax burden and require additional compliance-related expenditures. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be adversely affected. further changes, including with retroactive effect, in the tax laws of the united states, the united kingdom, the european union, or other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could also adversely affect us. we may not qualify for benefits under tax treaties entered into between the united kingdom and other countries. we operate in a manner such that we believe we are eligible for benefits under tax treaties between the united kingdom and other countries. however, our ability to qualify for such benefits will depend on whether we are treated as a u.k. tax resident, the requirements contained in each treaty and applicable domestic laws, on the facts and circumstances surrounding our operations and management, and on the relevant interpretation of the tax authorities and courts. for example, because of the anticipated withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union ( brexit ), we may lose some or all of the benefits of tax treaties between the united states and the remaining members of the european union, and face higher tax liabilities, which may be significant. another example is the multilateral convention to implement tax treaty related measures to prevent base erosion and profit shifting (the mli ), which entered into force for participating jurisdictions on july 1, 2018. the mli recommends that countries adopt a limitation-on-benefit rule and/or a principle purposes test rule with regards to their tax treaties. the scope and interpretation of these rules as adopted pursuant to the mli are presently under development, but the application of either rule might deny us tax treaty benefits that were previously available. the failure by us or our subsidiaries to qualify for benefits under tax treaties entered into between the united kingdom and other countries could result in adverse tax consequences to us (including an increased tax burden and increased filing obligations) and could result in certain tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. we intend to be treated exclusively as a resident of the united kingdom for tax purposes, but french or other tax authorities may seek to treat us as a tax resident of another jurisdiction. we are incorporated in the united kingdom. english law currently provides that we will be regarded as a u.k. resident for tax purposes from incorporation and shall remain so unless (i) we are concurrently a resident in another jurisdiction (applying the tax residence rules of that jurisdiction) that has a double tax treaty with the united kingdom and (ii) there is a tiebreaker provision in that tax treaty which allocates exclusive residence to that other jurisdiction. in this regard, we have a permanent establishment in france to satisfy certain french tax requirements imposed by the french tax code with respect to the merger. although it is intended that we will be treated as having our exclusive place of tax residence in the united kingdom, the french tax authorities may claim that we are a tax resident of france if we were to fail to maintain our place of effective management in the united kingdom. any such claim would be settled between the french and u.k. tax authorities pursuant to the mutual assistance procedure provided for by the tax treaty concluded between france and the united kingdom. there is no assurance that these authorities would reach an agreement that we will remain exclusively a u.k. tax resident; a determination which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. a failure to maintain exclusive tax residency in the united kingdom could result in adverse tax 32 consequences to us and our subsidiaries and could result in certain adverse changes in the tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. the company has identified material weaknesses relating to internal control over financial reporting. if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if one or more additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to further restate our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. management identified material weaknesses in the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2018 as described in part ii, item 9a of this annual report on form 10-k. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. as a result of the material weaknesses, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of december 31, 2018. in addition, as a result of these material weaknesses, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that, as of december 31, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. until these material weaknesses are remediated, they could lead to errors in our financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if one or more additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require significant resources to correct the weaknesses or deficiencies, subject us to fines, penalties or judgments, harm our reputation or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence and in the market price of our stock. additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could be identified in the future. any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under section 404 of the u.s. sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under section 404. the existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to, among other things, a decline in our stock price. we can give no assurances that the measures we have taken to date, or any future measures we may take, will fully remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. in addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair and accurate presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the u.s. securities and exchange commission. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to financial market risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. in order to manage and mitigate our exposure to these risks, we may use derivative financial instruments in accordance with established policies and procedures. we do not use derivative financial instruments where the objective is to generate profits solely from trading activities. at december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 , substantially all of our derivative holdings consisted of foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency instruments embedded in purchase and sale contracts. these forward-looking disclosures only address potential impacts from market risks as they affect our financial instruments and do not include other potential effects that could impact our business as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices or equity prices. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct operations around the world in a number of different currencies. many of our significant foreign subsidiaries have designated the local currency as their functional currency. our earnings are therefore subject to change due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates when the earnings in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars. we do not hedge this translation impact on earnings. a 10% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all foreign currencies at december 31, 2018 , would have changed our revenue and income before income taxes attributable to technipfmc by approximately $134.6 million and $5.7 million , respectively. when transactions are denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries' respective functional currencies, we manage these exposures through the use of derivative instruments. we primarily use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the foreign currency fluctuation associated with firmly committed and forecasted foreign currency denominated payments and receipts. the derivative instruments associated with these anticipated transactions are usually designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, and as such the gains and losses associated with these instruments are recorded in other comprehensive income until such time that the underlying transactions are recognized. unless these cash flow contracts are deemed to be ineffective or are not designated as cash flow hedges at inception, changes in the derivative fair value will not have an immediate impact on our results of operations since the gains and losses associated with these instruments are recorded in other comprehensive income. when the anticipated transactions occur, these changes in value of derivative instrument positions will be offset against changes in the value of the underlying transaction. when an anticipated transaction in a currency other than the functional currency of an entity is recognized as an asset or liability on the balance sheet, we also hedge the foreign currency fluctuation of these assets and liabilities with derivative instruments after netting our exposures worldwide. these derivative instruments do not qualify as cash flow hedges. occasionally, we enter into contracts or other arrangements containing terms and conditions that qualify as embedded derivative instruments and are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. in those situations, we enter into derivative foreign exchange contracts that hedge the price or cost fluctuations due to movements in the foreign exchange rates. these derivative instruments are not designated as cash flow hedges. for our foreign currency forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that are accounted for as cash flow hedges, a 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar would have resulted in an additional loss of $50.7 million in the net fair value of cash flow hedges reflected in our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2018 . interest rate risk at december 31, 2018 , we had commercial paper of approximately $1.9 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 1.82% . using sensitivity analysis to measure the impact of a 10% adverse movement in the interest rate, or eighteen basis points, would result in an increase to interest expense of $3.5 million . 62 we assess effectiveness of forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges based on changes in fair value attributable to changes in spot rates. we exclude the impact attributable to changes in the difference between the spot rate and the forward rate for the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize the change in fair value of this component immediately in earnings. considering that the difference between the spot rate and the forward rate is proportional to the differences in the interest rates of the countries of the currencies being traded, we have exposure in the unrealized valuation of our forward foreign currency contracts to relative changes in interest rates between countries in our results of operations. to the extent any one interest rate increases by 10% across all tenors and other countries' interest rates remain fixed, and assuming no change in discount rates, we would expect to recognize a decrease of $1.1 million in unrealized earnings in the period of change. based on our portfolio as of december 31, 2018 , we have material positions with exposure to interest rates in the united states, canada, australia, brazil, the united kingdom, singapore, the european community, and norway. 63risk factors 23 risk factors important risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec. risks related to our business and industry we operate in a highly competitive environment and unanticipated changes relating to competitive factors in our industry, including ongoing industry consolidation, may impact our results of operations. we compete on the basis of a number of different factors, such as product offerings, project execution, customer service, and price. in order to compete effectively we must develop and implement innovative technologies and processes, and execute our clients' projects effectively. we can give no assurances that we will continue to be able to compete effectively with the products and services or prices offered by our competitors. our industry, including our customers and competitors, has experienced unanticipated changes in recent years. moreover, the industry is undergoing vertical and horizontal consolidation to create economies of scale and control the value chain, which may affect demand for our products and services because of price concessions for our competitors or decreased customer capital spending. this consolidation activity could impact our ability to maintain market share, maintain or increase pricing for our products and services or negotiate favorable contract terms with our customers and suppliers, which could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are unable to predict what effect consolidations and other competitive factors in the industry may have on prices, capital spending by our customers, our selling strategies, our competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with our customers. demand for our products and services depends on oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in the demand for and price of crude oil and natural gas. we are substantially dependent on conditions in the oil and gas industry, including (i) the level of exploration, development and production activity, (ii) capital spending, and (iii) the processing of oil and natural gas in refining units, petrochemical sites, and natural gas liquefaction plants by energy companies that are our customers. any substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the reduced pace of discovery and development of new reserves of oil and gas and the reduced exploration of existing wells, which could adversely affect demand for our products and services and, in certain instances, result in the cancellation, modification, or re-scheduling of existing orders in our backlog. these factors could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. the level of exploration, development, and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates, and general economic and business conditions; costs of exploring for, producing, and delivering oil and natural gas; political and economic uncertainty, and socio-political unrest; governmental laws, policies, regulations and subsidies related to or affecting the production, use, and exportation/importation of oil and natural gas; available excess production capacity within the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and the level of oil production by non-opec countries; oil refining and transportation capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; development, exploitation, relative price, and availability of alternative sources of energy and our customers' shift of capital to the development of these sources; 23 volatility in, and access to, capital and credit markets, which may affect our customers' activity levels, and spending for our products and services; and natural disasters. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. while oil and natural gas prices have partially rebounded from the downturn that began in 2014, the market remains quite volatile and the sustainability of the price recovery and business activity levels is dependent on variables beyond our control, such as geopolitical stability, opec's actions to regulate its production capacity, changes in demand patterns, and international sanctions and tariffs. continued volatility or any future reduction in demand for oilfield services could further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our success depends on our ability to develop, implement, and protect new technologies and services. our success depends on the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs, including the processes used by us to produce and market our products, and on our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. if we are not able to obtain patents, trade secrets or other protection of our intellectual property rights, if our patents are unenforceable or the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, or if we are not able to adequately protect our patents or trade secrets, we may not be able to continue to develop our services, products and related technologies. additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop technology that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. if any of these events occurs, we may be unable to meet evolving industry requirements or do so at prices acceptable to our customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. the industries in which we operate or have operated expose us to potential liabilities, including the installation or use of our products, which may not be covered by insurance or may be in excess of policy limits, or for which expected recoveries may not be realized. we are subject to potential liabilities arising from, among other possibilities, equipment malfunctions, equipment misuse, personal injuries, and natural disasters, any of which may result in hazardous situations, including uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires, and explosions. our insurance against these risks may not be adequate to cover our liabilities. further, the insurance may not generally be available in the future or, if available, premiums may not be commercially justifiable. if we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we were not able to obtain liability insurance, such potential liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may lose money on fixed-price contracts. as customary for some of our projects, we often agree to provide products and services under fixed-price contracts. we are subject to material risks in connection with such fixed-price contracts. it is not possible to estimate with complete certainty the final cost or margin of a project at the time of bidding or during the early phases of its execution. actual expenses incurred in executing these fixed-price contracts can vary substantially from those originally anticipated for several reasons including, but not limited to, the following: unforeseen additional costs related to the purchase of substantial equipment necessary for contract fulfillment or labor shortages in the markets where the contracts are performed; mechanical failure of our production equipment and machinery; delays caused by local weather conditions and/or natural disasters (including earthquakes and floods); and a failure of suppliers, subcontractors, or joint venture partners to perform their contractual obligations. the realization of any material risks and unforeseen circumstances could also lead to delays in the execution schedule of a project. we may be held liable to a customer should we fail to meet project milestones or deadlines or to comply with other contractual provisions. additionally, delays in certain projects could lead to delays in subsequent projects that were scheduled to use equipment and machinery still being utilized on a delayed project. 24 pursuant to the terms of fixed-price contracts, we are not always able to increase the price of the contract to reflect factors that were unforeseen at the time our bid was submitted, and this risk may be heightened for projects with longer terms. depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance, or variations in multiple contracts, could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. new capital asset construction projects for vessels and manufacturing facilities are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, or results of operations. we regularly carry out capital asset construction projects to maintain, upgrade, and develop our asset base, and such projects are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns that are inherent in any large construction project, resulting from numerous factors including, but not limited to, the following: shortages of key equipment, materials or skilled labor; delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; design and engineering issues; and shipyard delays and performance issues. failure to complete construction in time, or the inability to complete construction in accordance with design specifications, may result in the loss of revenue. additionally, capital expenditures for construction projects could materially exceed the initially planned investments , or there could be delays in putting such assets into operation. our failure to timely deliver our backlog could affect future sales, profitability, and relationships with our customers. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times due to complex technical and logistical requirements. these contracts may contain clauses related to liquidated damages or financial incentives regarding on-time delivery, and a failure by us to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to liquidated damages or loss of financial incentives, reduce our margins on these contracts, or result in damage to existing customer relationships. the ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, subcontractor performance, project engineering expertise and execution, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance. we face risks relating to our reliance on subcontractors, suppliers, and our joint venture partners. we generally rely on subcontractors, suppliers, and our joint venture partners for the performance of our contracts. although we are not dependent upon any single supplier, certain geographic areas of our business or a project or group of projects may depend heavily on certain suppliers for raw materials or semi-finished goods. any difficulty in engaging suitable subcontractors or acquiring equipment and materials could compromise our ability to generate a significant margin on a project or to complete such project within the allocated time frame. if subcontractors, suppliers or joint venture partners refuse to adhere to their contractual obligations with us or are unable to do so due to a deterioration of their financial condition, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement at a comparable price, or at all. moreover, the failure of one of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations in a timely and satisfactory manner could lead to additional obligations and costs being imposed on us as we may be obligated to assume our defaulting partner's obligations or compensate our customers. any delay, failure to meet contractual obligations, or other event beyond our control or not foreseeable by us, that is attributable to a subcontractor, supplier or joint venture partner, could lead to delays in the overall progress of the project and/or generate significant extra costs. even if we are entitled to make a claim for these extra costs against the defaulting supplier, subcontractor or joint venture partner, we may be unable to recover the entirety of these costs and this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our businesses are dependent on the continuing services of certain of our key managers and employees. 25 we depend on key personnel. the loss of any key personnel could adversely impact our business if we are unable to implement key strategies or transactions in their absence. the loss of qualified employees or failure to retain and motivate additional highly-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to successfully conduct research activities and develop marketable products and services. seasonal and weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our services and operations. our business may be materially affected by variation from normal weather patterns, such as cooler or warmer summers and winters. adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the gulf of mexico or extreme winter conditions in canada, russia, and the north sea, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers' operations, cause supply disruptions or loss of productivity, and may result in a loss of revenue or damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. any of these events or outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. due to the types of contracts we enter into and the markets in which we operate, the cumulative loss of several major contracts, customers, or alliances may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we often enter into large, long-term contracts that, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue. these agreements, if terminated or breached, may have a larger impact on our operating results or our financial condition than shorter-term contracts due to the value at risk. moreover, the global market for the production, transportation, and transformation of hydrocarbons and by-products, as well as the other industrial markets in which we operate, is dominated by a small number of companies. as a result, our business relies on a limited number of customers. if we were to lose several key contracts, customers, or alliances over a relatively short period of time, we could experience a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations require us to comply with numerous regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations and manufacturing activities are governed by international, regional, transnational, and national laws and regulations in every place where we operate relating to matters such as environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, import/export controls, currency exchange, bribery and corruption, and taxation. these laws and regulations are complex, frequently change, and have tended to become more stringent over time. in the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our international operations are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), the u.k. bribery act of 2010 (the bribery act ), the anti-corruption provisions of french law n 2016-1691 dated december 9, 2016 relating to transparency, anti-corruption and modernization of the business practice ( sapin ii law ), the brazilian anti-bribery act (also known as the brazilian clean company act), and economic and trade sanctions, including those administered by the united nations, the european union, the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury ( u.s. treasury ), and the u.s. department of state. the fcpa prohibits corruptly providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. we may deal with both governments and state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the fcpa. the provisions of the bribery act extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and are more onerous than the fcpa in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments, and penalties. economic and trade sanctions restrict our transactions or dealings with certain sanctioned countries, territories, and designated persons. as a result of doing business in foreign countries, including through partners and agents, we are exposed to a risk of violating anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations. some of the international locations in which we currently operate or may, in the future, operate, have developing legal systems and may have higher levels of corruption than more developed nations. our continued expansion and worldwide operations, including in developing countries, our development of joint venture relationships worldwide, and the employment of local agents in the countries in which we operate increases the risk of violations of anti-corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions. violations of anti-corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts (and termination of existing contracts), and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. in addition, any major violations could have a significant impact on our reputation and consequently on our ability to win future business. 26 we have implemented internal controls designed to minimize and detect potential violations of laws and regulations in a timely manner but we can provide no assurance that such policies and procedures will be followed at all times or will effectively detect and prevent violations of the applicable laws by one or more of our employees, consultants, agents, or partners. the occurrence of any such violation could subject us to penalties and material adverse consequences on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. compliance with environmental and climate change - related laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. environmental laws and regulations in various countries affect the equipment, systems, and services we design, market, and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems, and any other operations we undertake. we are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and believe that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the issuance of orders enjoining our operations, or other claims and complaints. additionally, our insurance and compliance costs may increase as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations or changes in enforcement. these laws and regulations, as well as any new laws and regulations affecting exploration and development of drilling for crude oil and natural gas, are becoming increasingly strict and could adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing our costs, limiting the demand for our products and services, or restricting our operations. existing or future laws and regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change may adversely affect our business. climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. as a result, numerous laws, regulations, and proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional, and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases ( ghgs ). these efforts have included cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, ghg reporting and tracking programs and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources. such existing or future laws, regulations , and proposals concerning the release of ghgs or that concern climate change (including laws, regulations , and proposals that seek to mitigate the effects of climate change) may adversely impact demand for the equipment, systems and services we design, market and sell. for example, oil and natural gas exploration and production may decline as a result of such laws, regulations , and proposals , and as a consequence , demand for our equipment, systems and services may also decline. in addition, such laws, regulations , and proposals may also result in more onerous obligations with respect to our operations, including the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems. such decline in demand for our equipment, systems and services and such onerous obligations in respect of our operations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic, and social conditions of the countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect our business or results of operations. we operate in various countries across the world. instability and unforeseen changes in any of the markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for our services and products, our financial condition, or our results of operations. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: nationalization and expropriation; potentially burdensome taxation; inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets; civil unrest, labor issues, political instability, disease outbreaks, terrorist attacks, cyber terrorism, military activity, and wars; supply disruptions in key oil producing countries; the ability of opec to set and maintain production levels and pricing; trade restrictions, trade protection measures, price controls, or trade disputes; 27 sanctions, such as prohibitions or restrictions by the united states against countries that are the targets of economic sanctions, or are designated as state sponsors of terrorism; foreign ownership restrictions; import or export licensing requirements; restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners, and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws, and regulations; regime changes; changes in, and the administration of, treaties, laws, and regulations including in response to public health issues; inability to repatriate income or capital; reductions in the availability of qualified personnel; foreign currency fluctuations or currency restrictions; and fluctuations in the interest rate component of forward foreign currency rates. dtc and euroclear may cease to act as depository and clearing agencies for our shares. our shares were issued into the facilities of the depository trust company ( dtc ) with respect to shares listed on the nyse and euroclear with respect to shares listed on euronext paris (dtc and euroclear being referred to as the clearance services ). the clearance services are widely used mechanisms that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in their respective systems, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. the clearance services have general discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agencies for our shares. if either of the clearance services determine at any time that our shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within its facilities, then we believe that our shares would not be eligible for continued listing on the nyse or euronext paris, as applicable, and trading in our shares would be disrupted. any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our shares. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets, and our business. we are based in the united kingdom and have operational headquarters in paris, france; houston, texas, united states; and in london, united kingdom, with worldwide operations, including material business operations in europe. the united kingdom formally withdrew from the european union on january 31, 2020 and entered into a transition period, which will end on or after december 31, 2020. during the transition period, the united kingdom and the european union will continue to negotiate their future customs and trading arrangements, and other aspects of their relationship. political and economic uncertainty remains about whether the terms of the relationship will differ materially from the terms before withdrawal, as well as the possibility that a so-called no deal separation will occur if negotiations are not completed by the end of the transition period. these developments could have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of the global financial markets and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. asset valuations, currency exchange rates, and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility. in addition, a lack of clarity about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union, and their respective laws and regulations, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws, employment laws, and other rules that would apply to us and our subsidiaries, could increase our costs, restrict our access to capital within the united kingdom and the european union, depress economic activity, and further decrease foreign direct investment in the united kingdom. for example, withdrawal from the european union could, depending on the negotiated terms of such withdrawal, eliminate the benefit of certain tax-related e.u. directives currently applicable to u.k. companies such as us, including the parent-subsidiary directive and the interest and royalties directive, which could, subject to any relief under an available tax treaty, raise our tax costs. 28 any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. as an english public limited company, we must meet certain additional financial requirements before we may declare dividends or repurchase shares and certain capital structure decisions may require stockholder approval which may limit our flexibility to manage our capital structure. we may not be able to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our ordinary shares in accordance with our announced intent, or at all. under english law, we will only be able to declare dividends, make distributions, or repurchase shares (other than out of the proceeds of a new issuance of shares for that purpose) out of distributable profits. distributable profits are a company's accumulated, realized profits, to the extent that they have not been previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, to the extent that they have not been previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. in addition, as a public limited company incorporated in england and wales, we may only make a distribution if the amount of our net assets is not less than the aggregate of our called-up share capital and non-distributable reserves and to the extent that the distribution does not reduce the amount of those assets to less than that aggregate. following the merger, we implemented a court-approved reduction of our capital, which was completed on june 29, 2017, in order to create distributable profits to support the payment of possible future dividends or future share repurchases. our articles of association permit us by ordinary resolution of the stockholders to declare dividends, provided that the directors have made a recommendation as to its amount. the dividend shall not exceed the amount recommended by the board of directors. the directors may also decide to pay interim dividends if it appears to them that the profits available for distribution justify the payment. when recommending or declaring payment of a dividend, the directors are required under english law to comply with their duties, including considering our future financial requirements. in addition, the board of directors' determinations regarding dividends and share repurchases will depend on a variety of other factors, including our net income, cash flow generated from operations or other sources, liquidity position, and potential alternative uses of cash, such as acquisitions, as well as economic conditions and expected future financial results. our ability to declare and pay future dividends and make future share repurchases will depend on our future financial performance, which in turn depends on the successful implementation of our strategy and on financial, competitive, regulatory, technical, general economic conditions, demand and selling prices for our products and services, and other factors specific to our industry or specific projects, many of which are beyond our control. therefore, our ability to generate cash depends on the performance of our operations and could be limited by decreases in our profitability or increases in costs, regulatory changes, capital expenditures, or debt servicing requirements. any failure to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our ordinary shares could negatively impact our reputation, harm investor confidence in us, and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. our existing and future debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding debt. we have substantial existing debt. as of december 31, 2019 , our total debt is $4.5 billion . we also have the capacity under our $2.5 billion credit facility, in addition to our bilateral facility, to incur substantial additional debt. our level of debt could have important consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions, and other general partnership purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt or to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in an event of default under the terms of those instruments. in the event of such 29 default, the holders of such debt could elect to declare all the amounts outstanding under such instruments to be due and payable. the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) and certain other interest benchmarks may be subject to regulatory guidance and/or reform that could cause interest rates under our current or future debt agreements to perform differently than in the past or cause other unanticipated consequences. the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, has announced that it intends to stop encouraging or requiring banks to submit libor rates after 2021, and it is unclear if libor will cease to exist or if new methods of calculating libor will evolve. if libor ceases to exist or if the methods of calculating libor change from their current form, interest rates on our current or future debt obligations may be adversely affected. a downgrade in our debt rating could restrict our ability to access the capital markets. the terms of our financing are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. we cannot provide assurance that any of our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, capital structure, planned asset purchases or sales, near- and long-term production growth opportunities, market position, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix, customer and geographic diversification, and commodity price levels. a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly to non-investment grade levels, could limit our ability to access the debt capital markets or refinance our existing debt or cause us to refinance or issue debt with less favorable terms and conditions. moreover, our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. an increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing, as well as have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. uninsured claims and litigation against us, including intellectual property litigation, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation, as well as unexpected litigation or proceedings. we have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products or operating environments in which our employees operate, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available. however, our insurance policies are subject to exclusions, limitations, and other conditions and may not apply in all cases, for example where willful wrongdoing on our part is alleged. additionally, the nature and amount of that insurance may not be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. additionally, in individual circumstances, certain proceedings or cases may also lead to our formal or informal exclusion from tenders or the revocation or loss of business licenses or permits. our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. in addition, the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs, and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs. the resolution of these claims could require us to enter into license agreements or develop alternative technologies. the development of these technologies or the payment of royalties under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available, or we are not able to develop alternative technologies, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we conduct operations around the world in many different currencies. because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in currencies other than our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in our revenue, costs, and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets and liabilities and related equity. we hedge transaction impacts on margins and earnings where a transaction is not in the functional currency of the business unit, but we do not hedge translation impacts on earnings. our efforts to minimize our currency exposure through such hedging transactions may not be successful depending on market and business conditions. moreover, certain currencies in which we conduct operations, specifically currencies in countries such as angola and nigeria, do not actively trade in the global foreign exchange markets and may subject 30 us to increased foreign currency exposures. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our acquisition and divestiture activities involve substantial risks. we have made and expect to continue to pursue acquisitions, dispositions, or other investments that may strategically fit our business and/or growth objectives. we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to locate suitable acquisitions, dispositions, or investments, or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. even if we do successfully execute such transactions, they may not result in anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. if we are unable to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including any expected increases in revenues and operating results. we may not be able to successfully cause a buyer of a divested business to assume the liabilities of that business or, even if such liabilities are assumed, we may have difficulties enforcing our rights, contractual or otherwise, against the buyer. we may invest in companies or businesses that fail, causing a loss of all or part of our investment. in addition, if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for a company in which we have invested, we may have to write down that investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. a failure of our it infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. the efficient operation of our business is dependent on our it systems. accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability, and security of our it hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to changing needs. we have been subject to cyber attacks in the past, including phishing, malware, and ransomware. no such attack has had a material adverse effect on our business, however this may not be the case with future attacks. our systems may be vulnerable to damages from such attacks, as well as from natural disasters, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, unauthorized access to data and systems, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), human error, and other similar disruptions, and we cannot give assurance that any security measures we have implemented or may in the future implement will be sufficient to identify and prevent or mitigate such disruptions. we rely on third parties to support the operation of our it hardware, software infrastructure, and cloud services, and in certain instances, utilize web-based and software-as-a-service applications. the security and privacy measures implemented by such third parties, as well as the measures implemented by any entities we acquire or with whom we do business, may not be sufficient to identify or prevent cyber attacks, and any such attacks may have a material adverse effect on our business. while our it vendor agreements typically contain provisions that seek to eliminate or limit our exposure to liability for damages from a cyber attack, we cannot ensure such provisions will withstand legal challenges or cover all or any such damages. threats to our it systems arise from numerous sources, not all of which are within our control, including fraud or malice on the part of third parties, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer servers or other damage to our property or assets, outbreaks of hostilities, or terrorist acts. the failure of our it systems or those of our vendors to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, inappropriate disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, reputational harm, increased overhead costs, and loss of important information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. our insurance coverage may not cover all of the costs and liabilities we incur as the result of any disruptions or security breaches, and if our business continuity and/or disaster recovery plans do not effectively and timely resolve issues resulting from a cyber attack, we may suffer material adverse effects on our business. we are subject to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, data protection, and data security. our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. we are subject to international data protection laws, such as the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, in the european economic area, or eea. the gdpr imposes several stringent requirements for controllers and processors of personal data which have increased our obligations, including, for example, by requiring more robust disclosures to individuals, notifications, in some cases, of data breaches to regulators and data subjects, and a record of processing and other policies and procedures to be maintained to adhere to the accountability principle. in addition, we are subject to the gdpr's rules on transferring personal data outside of the eea (including to the 31 united states), and some of these rules are currently being challenged in the courts. failure to comply with the requirements of gdpr and the local laws implementing or supplementing the gdpr could result in fines of up to 20,000,000 or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, as well as other administrative penalties. we are likely to be required to expend significant capital and other resources to ensure ongoing compliance with the gdpr and other applicable data protection legislation, and we may be required to put in place additional control mechanisms which could be onerous and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. the irs may not agree that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes and may seek to impose an excise tax on gains recognized by certain individuals. although we are incorporated in the united kingdom, the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). for u.s. federal income tax purposes, a corporation (i) is generally considered a domestic corporation (or u.s. tax resident) if it is organized in the united states or of any state or political subdivision therein, and (ii) is generally considered a foreign corporation (or non-u.s. tax resident) if it is not considered a domestic corporation. because we are a u.k. incorporated entity, we would be considered a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 of the code ( section 7874 ) provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. we do not believe this exception applies. however, the section 7874 rules are complex and subject to detailed regulations, the application of which is uncertain in various respects. it is possible that the irs will not agree with our position. should the irs successfully challenge our position, it is also possible that an excise tax under section 4985 of the code (the section 4985 excise tax ) may be assessed against certain disqualified individuals (including former officers and directors of fmc technologies, inc.) on certain stock-based compensation held thereby. we may, if we determine that it is appropriate, provide disqualified individuals with a payment with respect to the section 4985 excise tax, so that, on a net after-tax basis, they would be in the same position as if no such section 4985 excise tax had been applied. in addition, there can be no assurance that there will not be a change in law or interpretation, including with retroactive effect, that might cause us to be treated as a domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. u.s. tax laws and/or guidance could affect our ability to engage in certain acquisition strategies and certain internal restructurings. even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, section 7874, u.s. treasury regulations, and other guidance promulgated thereunder may adversely affect our ability to engage in certain future acquisitions of u.s. businesses or to restructure the non-u.s. members of our group. these limitations, if applicable, may affect the tax efficiencies that otherwise might be achieved in such potential future transactions or restructurings. in addition, the irs and the u.s. treasury have issued final and temporary regulations providing that, even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, certain intercompany debt instruments issued on or after april 4, 2016 will be treated as equity for u.s. federal income tax purposes, therefore limiting u.s. tax benefits and resulting in possible u.s. withholding taxes. although recent guidance from the u.s. treasury removes certain documentation requirements that would otherwise be imposed with respect to covered debt instruments, announces an intention to further modify and possibly withdraw certain classification rules relating to covered debt instruments, and further indicates that these rules generally are the subject of continuing study and may be further materially modified, the current regulations may adversely affect our future effective tax rate and could also impact our ability to engage in future restructurings if such transactions cause an existing intercompany debt instrument to be treated as reissued for u.s. federal income tax purposes. we are subject to the tax laws of numerous jurisdictions; challenges to the interpretation of, or future changes to, such laws could adversely affect us. we and our subsidiaries are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united kingdom, the united states, france, and numerous other jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries operate. these laws and regulations are inherently complex, and we are, and will continue to be, obligated to make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws and regulations to our operations and businesses. the interpretation and application of 32 these laws and regulations could be challenged by the relevant governmental authorities, which could result in administrative or judicial procedures, actions, or sanctions, which could be material. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act was signed into law in the united states, which made extensive changes to the u.s. taxation of multinational companies, and is subject to future regulatory and possible legislative changes. in addition, the u.s. congress, the u.k. government, the european union, the organization for economic co-operation and development (the oecd ), and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. new tax initiatives, directives, and rules, such as the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act, the oecd's base erosion and profit shifting initiative, and the european union's anti-tax avoidance directives, may increase our tax burden and require additional compliance-related expenditures. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be adversely affected. further changes, including with retroactive effect, in the tax laws of the united states, the united kingdom, the european union, or other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could also adversely affect us. we may not qualify for benefits under tax treaties entered into between the united kingdom and other countries. we operate in a manner such that we believe we are eligible for benefits under tax treaties between the united kingdom and other countries. however, our ability to qualify for such benefits will depend on whether we are treated as a u.k. tax resident, the requirements contained in each treaty and applicable domestic laws, on the facts and circumstances surrounding our operations and management, and on the relevant interpretation of the tax authorities and courts. for example, because of brexit, we may lose some or all of the benefits of tax treaties between the united states and the remaining members of the european union, and face higher tax liabilities, which may be significant. another example is the multilateral convention to implement tax treaty related measures to prevent base erosion and profit shifting (the mli ), which entered into force for participating jurisdictions on july 1, 2018. the mli recommends that countries adopt a limitation-on-benefit rule and/or a principle purposes test rule with regards to their tax treaties. the scope and interpretation of these rules as adopted pursuant to the mli are presently under development, but the application of either rule might deny us tax treaty benefits that were previously available. the failure by us or our subsidiaries to qualify for benefits under tax treaties entered into between the united kingdom and other countries could result in adverse tax consequences to us (including an increased tax burden and increased filing obligations) and could result in certain tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. we intend to be treated exclusively as a resident of the united kingdom for tax purposes, but french or other tax authorities may seek to treat us as a tax resident of another jurisdiction. we are incorporated in the united kingdom. english law currently provides that we will be regarded as a u.k. resident for tax purposes from incorporation and shall remain so unless (i) we are concurrently a resident in another jurisdiction (applying the tax residence rules of that jurisdiction) that has a double tax treaty with the united kingdom and (ii) there is a tiebreaker provision in that tax treaty which allocates exclusive residence to that other jurisdiction. in this regard, we have a permanent establishment in france to satisfy certain french tax requirements imposed by the french tax code with respect to the merger. although it is intended that we will be treated as having our exclusive place of tax residence in the united kingdom, the french tax authorities may claim that we are a tax resident of france if we were to fail to maintain our place of effective management in the united kingdom. any such claim would be settled between the french and u.k. tax authorities pursuant to the mutual assistance procedure provided for by the tax treaty concluded between france and the united kingdom. there is no assurance that these authorities would reach an agreement that we will remain exclusively a u.k. tax resident; an adverse determination could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. a failure to maintain exclusive tax residency in the united kingdom could result in adverse tax consequences to us and our subsidiaries and could result in certain adverse changes in the tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. pirates endanger our maritime employees and assets. we face material piracy risks in the gulf of guinea, the somali basin, and the gulf of aden, and, to a lesser extent, in southeast asia, malacca, and the singapore straits. piracy represents a risk for both our projects and our vessels, which operate and transport through sensitive maritime areas. such risks have the potential to significantly 33 harm our crews and to negatively impact the execution schedule for our projects. if our maritime employees or assets are endangered, additional time may be required to find an alternative solution, which may delay project realization and negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. risks related to the proposed separation transaction the proposed separation transaction announced on august 26, 2019 is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management, and may not achieve the intended results. as previously disclosed, our board of directors unanimously approved a plan to separate into two independent, publicly traded companies. for more information, please refer to note 3 to our consolidated financial statements of this annual report on form 10-k. the completion of the transaction, which is expected to be structured as a separation of our onshore/offshore segment including genesis, a leader in front-end engineering and design, as well as loading systems, a leader in cryogenic material transfer products, and cybernetix, a technology leader in process automation, is contingent upon the final approval of our board of directors as well as market conditions and the receipt of regulatory approvals, which are beyond our control, as well as consultation of employee representatives, where applicable. we may also choose to abandon the separation at any time. for these and other reasons, the separation may not be completed in the expected timeframe or at all. additionally, the execution of the proposed separation will likely continue to require significant time and attention of our management, which could impact other strategic initiatives. our employees may also be uncertain about their future roles within the separate companies pending the completion of the separation, which could lead to departures. also, in connection with the separation, we will indemnify technip energies for certain liabilities and technip energies will indemnify us for certain liabilities. if we are required to act on these indemnities to technip energies, our financial results could be negatively impacted. additionally, any indemnity from technip energies may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which we are responsible and technip energies may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, and cause the combined market value of us and technip energies after the separation to fall short of the market value of our shares prior to the separation. substantial sales of our shares may also occur in connection with the separation, which could cause our share price to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to financial market risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. in order to manage and mitigate our exposure to these risks, we may use derivative financial instruments in accordance with established policies and procedures. we do not use derivative financial instruments where the objective is to generate profits solely from trading activities. at december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 , substantially all of our derivative holdings consisted of foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency instruments embedded in purchase and sale contracts. these forward-looking disclosures only address potential impacts from market risks as they affect our financial instruments and do not include other potential effects that could impact our business as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices or equity prices. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct operations around the world in a number of different currencies. many of our significant foreign subsidiaries have designated the local currency as their functional currency. our earnings are therefore subject to change due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates when the earnings in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars. we do not hedge this translation impact on earnings. a 10% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all foreign currencies at december 31, 2019 , would have changed our revenue and income before income taxes attributable to technipfmc by approximately $140.6 million and $5.5 million , respectively. when transactions are denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries' respective functional currencies, we manage these exposures through the use of derivative instruments. we primarily use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the foreign currency fluctuation associated with firmly committed and forecasted foreign currency denominated payments and receipts. the derivative instruments associated with these anticipated transactions are usually designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, and as such the gains and losses associated with these instruments are recorded in other comprehensive income until such time that the underlying transactions are recognized. unless these cash flow contracts are deemed to be ineffective or are not designated as cash flow hedges at inception, changes in the derivative fair value will not have an immediate impact on our results of operations since the gains and losses associated with these instruments are recorded in other comprehensive income. when the anticipated transactions occur, these changes in value of derivative instrument positions will be offset against changes in the value of the underlying transaction. when an anticipated transaction in a currency other than the functional currency of an entity is recognized as an asset or liability on the balance sheet, we also hedge the foreign currency fluctuation of these assets and liabilities with derivative instruments after netting our exposures worldwide. these derivative instruments do not qualify as cash flow hedges. occasionally, we enter into contracts or other arrangements containing terms and conditions that qualify as embedded derivative instruments and are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. in those situations, we enter into derivative foreign exchange contracts that hedge the price or cost fluctuations due to movements in the foreign exchange rates. these derivative instruments are not designated as cash flow hedges. for our foreign currency forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that are accounted for as cash flow hedges, a 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar would have resulted in an additional loss of $83.8 million in the net fair value of cash flow hedges reflected in our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2019 . interest rate risk at december 31, 2019 , we had commercial paper of approximately $2.0 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 1.41% . using sensitivity analysis to measure the impact of a 10% adverse movement in the interest rate, or eighteen basis points, would result in an increase to interest expense of $2.8 million . 62 we assess effectiveness of forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges based on changes in fair value attributable to changes in spot rates. we exclude the impact attributable to changes in the difference between the spot rate and the forward rate for the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize the change in fair value of this component immediately in earnings. considering that the difference between the spot rate and the forward rate is proportional to the differences in the interest rates of the countries of the currencies being traded, we have exposure in the unrealized valuation of our forward foreign currency contracts to relative changes in interest rates between countries in our results of operations. to the extent any one interest rate increases by 10% across all tenors and other countries' interest rates remain fixed, and assuming no change in discount rates, we would expect to recognize a decrease of $0.5 million in unrealized earnings in the period of change. based on our portfolio as of december 31, 2019 , we have material positions with exposure to interest rates in the united states, canada, australia, brazil, the united kingdom, singapore, the european community, and norway. 63