quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 17 -25 risk factors please carefully consider the following discussion of significant factors, events and uncertainties that make an investment in the company's securities risky and provide important information for the understanding of the forward-looking statements discussed in item 7 of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. the events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances the company may not be able to accurately predict, recognize, or control, have a material adverse effect on moody's business, financial condition, operating results (including components of the company's financial results such as sales and profits), cash flows and stock price. these risk factors do not identify all risks that moody's faces. the company could also be affected by factors, events, or uncertainties that are not presently known to the company or that the company currently does not consider to present significant risks. in addition, the global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. a. legal and regulatory risks moody's faces risks related to u.s. laws and regulations affecting the credit rating industry and moody's customers. moody's operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s., including the reform act and the financial reform act. these regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. see regulation in part 1, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. these laws and regulations: seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business; may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings; restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings; increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and cra operations; provide for direct jurisdiction of the sec over cras that seek nrsro status, and grant authority to the sec to inspect the operations of cras; and authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards and new pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and aggregate legal defense costs. if these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking or court rulings, reduce demand for credit ratings or increase costs, moody's may be unable to pass such costs through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. the company's compliance and efforts to mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions can result in significant expenses. legal proceedings that are increasingly lengthy can result in uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on moody's business and its customers' businesses. for example, new laws and regulations may affect mis's communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which mis's ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which mis or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for mis's ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for rating agencies. further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may negatively affect moody's stock price. although these legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect moody's in a disproportionate manner. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and can have a material adverse effect on moody's operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. moody's 2019 10-k 17 table of contents in addition, ma derives a significant amount of its sales in the ers and professional services lobs from banks and other financial services providers who are subject to regulatory oversight. u.s. banking regulators, including the office of the comptroller of the currency, the federal deposit insurance corporation, the board of governors of the federal reserve system and the consumer financial protection board, as well as many state agencies have issued guidance to insured depository institutions and other providers of financial services on assessing and managing risks associated with third-party relationships, which include all business arrangements between a financial services provider and another entity, by contract or otherwise, and generally requires banks and financial services providers to exercise comprehensive oversight throughout each phase of a bank or financial service provider's business arrangement with third-party service providers, and instructs banks and financial service providers to adopt risk management processes commensurate with the level of risk and complexity of their third-party relationships. in light of this, ma's existing or potential bank and financial services customers subject to this guidance have sought to and may further revise their third-party risk management policies and processes and the terms on which they do business with ma. this can result in delayed or reduced sales to such customers, adversely affect ma's relationship with such customers, increase the costs of doing business with such customers and/or result in ma assuming greater financial and legal risk under service agreements with such customers. moody's faces risks related to financial reforms outside the u.s. affecting the credit rating industry and moody's customers. in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. in particular, the eu has adopted a common regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the eu. as a result, esma has direct supervisory authority for cras in the eu and has the power to take enforcement action against non-compliant cras, including through the issuance of public notices, withdrawal of registration and, in some cases, the imposition of fines. although the commission published a report in 2016 concluding that no new european legislation was needed for the industry at that time, the report also stated that it would continue to monitor the credit rating industry and analyze approaches that may strengthen existing regulation. for example, in 2018, esma published final guidance on the applicability of eu regulation to endorsed ratings which became effective on january 1, 2019. see regulation in part 1, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. mis is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection in the eu. applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of cras hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, and restrictions on cras or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed. additional procedural and substantive requirements include conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules regarding the organization of cras, restrictions on activities deemed to create a conflict of interest, including fees that are based on costs and are non-discriminatory, and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. compliance with the eu regulations may increase costs of operations and could have a significant negative effect on moody's operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that moody's presently is unable to predict. in addition, exposure to increased liability under the eu regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact moody's results of operations. in addition, regulators in europe and other foreign markets in which ma is active have issued guidance similar to that issued in the u.s. relating to financial institutions' assessment and management of risks associated with third-party relationships. such guidelines include the european banking authority's guidelines on outsourcing which became effective on september 30, 2019. in light of this, ma's existing or potential bank and financial services customers subject to this guidance have sought and may further revise their third-party risk management policies and processes and the terms on which they do business with ma. this can result in delayed or reduced sales to such customers, adversely affect ma's relationship with such customers, increase the costs of doing business with such customers and/or result in ma assuming greater financial and legal risk under service agreements with such customers. the eu and other jurisdictions engage in rulemaking on an ongoing basis that could significantly impact operations or the markets for moody's products and services, including regulations extending to products and services not currently regulated and regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, expansion of supervisory remit to include non-eu ratings used for regulatory purposes, increasing the level of competition in the market for credit ratings, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings, regulation of pricing (such that fees that are based on costs and are non-discriminatory) on activities provided by ma such as the distribution of ratings and research, and laws and regulations related to collection, use, accuracy, correction and sharing of personal information by cras. additionally, as of the date of the filing of this annual report on form 10-k, there remains uncertainty regarding the impact that brexit will have on the credit rating industry within the u.k., the eu and other jurisdictions. although moody's will monitor these developments, moody's cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on moody's business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. financial reforms in the eu and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on moody's business, operating results and financial condition. 18 moody's 2019 10-k table of contents the company faces exposure to litigation and government regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to rating opinions and other business practices. moody's faces exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to mis's ratings actions, as well as other business practices and products. if the market value of credit-dependent instruments declines or defaults, whether as a result of difficult economic times, turbulent markets or otherwise, the number of investigations and legal proceedings that moody's faces could increase significantly. parties who invest in securities rated by mis may pursue claims against mis or moody's for losses they face in their portfolios. moody's has faced numerous class action lawsuits and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events linked to the u.s. subprime residential mortgage sector and broader deterioration in the credit markets during the financial crisis of 2007-2008. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time to addressing other business issues, and any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions. risks relating to legal proceedings are heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the u.s. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. moody's may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. furthermore, when moody's is unable to achieve dismissals at an early stage and litigation matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by moody's increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. additionally, as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, moody's will continue to review the latest information available and may change its accounting estimates, which could require moody's to record or increase liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that the company currently faces. due to the number of these proceedings and the significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that moody's will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to risks related to its compliance and risk management programs. moody's operates in a number of countries, and as a result the company is required to comply and quickly adapt with numerous international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. the company's ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. moody's policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the company's risks, including risks resulting from acquisitions, may not be fully effective, and moody's employees or agents may engage in misconduct, fraud or other errors. it is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. if moody's employees violate its policies or if the company's risk management methods are not effective, the company could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of the company's employees, fines, penalties, regulatory sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets or other penalties, and may suffer harm to its reputation, financial condition and operating results. moody's faces risks related to protecting its intellectual property rights. moody's considers many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. failure to protect the company's intellectual property adequately could harm its reputation and affect the company's ability to compete effectively. businesses the company acquires also involve intellectual property portfolios, which increase the challenges the company faces in protecting its strategic advantage. in addition, the company's operating results can be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. on january 6, 2015, a rule with direct relevance to the cra industry was published in the official journal of the european union regarding the types of information that cras are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by esma (the european ratings platform). this rule directly relates to the company's intellectual property as it requires that the company provide proprietary information at no cost that the company currently sells, which could result in lost revenue. esma launched the european rating platform for public use on december 1, 2016. unauthorized third parties may also try to obtain and use technology or other information that the company regards as proprietary. it is also possible that moody's competitors or other entities could obtain patents related to the types of products and services that moody's offers, and attempt to require moody's to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to modify or redesign the products or services to avoid infringing, or to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents in order to continue developing and marketing the products and services. even if moody's attempts to assert or protect its intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the company will be successful. the company's ability to establish, maintain and protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights against theft, misappropriation or infringement could be materially and adversely affected by insufficient and/or changing proprietary rights and intellectual property legal protections in some jurisdictions and markets. these risks, and the cost, time and resources needed to address them, may increase as the company's business grows and its profile rises in countries with intellectual property regimes that are less protective than the rules and regulations applied in the united states. moody's 2019 10-k 19 table of contents moody's faces risks related to tax matters, including changes in tax rates or tax rules. as a global company, moody's is subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. as a result, our effective tax rate is determined based on the pre-tax income and applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which the company operates. moody's future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates or other factors, including by increased earnings in jurisdictions where moody's faces higher tax rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which moody's is not able to realize the related tax benefit, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. changes in the tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, policies and administrative practices, or changes to their interpretation or enforcement, including changes applicable to multinational corporations such as the base erosion profit shifting initiative being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development, which requires companies to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, and the european union's state aid rulings, could have a material adverse effect on the company's effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition and may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries. for example, the tax act made significant changes to the u.s. federal tax laws. many aspects of the new legislation are currently uncertain or unclear and may not be clarified for some time. as additional regulatory guidance is issued interpreting or clarifying the tax act or if the tax accounting rules are modified, there may be adjustments or changes to the company's determination of its mandatory one-time deemed repatriation tax liability ( transition tax ) on previously untaxed accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in 2017. additional regulatory guidance may also affect the company's expected future effective tax rates and tax assets and liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on moody's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. furthermore, the tax act may impact the volume of debt securities issued as discussed in the risk factor, changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment levels and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company's business. in addition, moody's is subject to regular examination of its income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities, and the company is experiencing increased scrutiny as its business grows. moody's regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits; however, developments in an audit or litigation could materially and adversely affect the company. although the company believes its tax estimates and accruals are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in its historical income tax provisions, accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, which could materially and adversely affect the company's business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. b. risks relating to our business the company is exposed to legal, economic, operational and regulatory risks of operating in multiple jurisdictions. moody's conducts operations in various countries outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the company operates have an impact on the company's business. for example, economic uncertainty in the eurozone or elsewhere, including in latin america or china, affects the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. in addition to the risks addressed elsewhere in this section, operations abroad expose moody's to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and usd; restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into usd and the costs, including the tax impact, of repatriating cash held by entities outside the u.s.; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations, including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions, such as those related to the u.s.'s relationship with china and embargoes and sanctions laws with respect to russia and venezuela; differing and potentially conflicting legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards, including as a result of brexit; uncertainty about the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu; current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on cras hired by issuers of securities; uncertain and evolving laws and regulations, including those applicable to the financial services industries, such as the european union's implementation of the markets in financial instruments directive ii, mifid ii, in january 2018, and to the protection of intellectual property; the transition away from libor to the secured overnight financing rate, sofr, as a benchmark reference for short-term interests; economic, political and geopolitical market conditions, including the effect of these conditions on customers and customer retention; 20 moody's 2019 10-k table of contents the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions; uncertainties in obtaining data and creating products and services relevant to particular geographic markets; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; differing accounting principles and standards; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including the expected relocation and/or restaffing of employees due to brexit; difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and potentially adverse tax consequences. additionally, moody's is subject to complex u.s., foreign and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to its operations abroad, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. the internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices the company has implemented may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or from material violations of applicable laws and regulations. any determination that the company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on moody's business, operating results and financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company's international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on moody's reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition. moody's operations are exposed to risks from infrastructure malfunctions or failures. moody's ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody's is located, including new york city, the location of moody's headquarters, major cities worldwide in which moody's has offices, and locations in china used for certain moody's work. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure (whether or not controlled by the company), including the company's electronic delivery systems, data center facilities, or the internet, used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody's conducts business. many of the company's products and services are delivered electronically and the company's customers depend on the company's ability to receive, store, process, transmit and otherwise rapidly handle very substantial quantities of data and transactions on computer-based networks. some of moody's operations require complex processes and the company's extensive controls to reduce the risk of error inherent in our operations cannot eliminate such risk completely. the company's customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of the company's telecommunications, data centers, networks and other electronic delivery systems, including its websites and connections to the internet. the company's employees also depend on these systems for internal use. any significant failure, compromise, cyber-breach, interruption or a significant slowdown of operations of the company's infrastructure, whether due to human error, capacity constraints, hardware failure or defect, weather (including climate change), natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, pandemic, war or otherwise, may impair the company's ability to deliver its products and services. moody's efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of its major operating systems may not be successful. the company relies on third-party providers, including, increasingly, cloud-based service providers, to provide certain essential services. while the company believes that such providers are reliable, the company has limited control over the performance of such pro viders. to the extent any of the company's third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fails to adequately expand its services to meet the company's needs and the needs of the company's customers, the company could experience lower revenues and higher costs. additionally, although the company maintains processes to prevent, detect and recover from a disruption, the company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody's locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons' ability to service and interact with moody's customers will suffer. the company cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from the company's failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to moody's operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. moody's 2019 10-k 21 table of contents changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment levels and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets can negatively impact the nature and economics of the company's business. moody's business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the u.s. and world financial markets. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional cras, such as mis. a majority of moody's credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. changes to u.s. tax laws and policy can negatively affect the volume of debt securities issued in the u.s. for example, the tax act limits deductibility on interest payments and significantly reduces the tax cost associated with the repatriation of cash held outside the u.s., both of which could negatively affect the volume of debt securities issued. conditions that reduce issuers' ability or willingness to issue debt securities, such as market volatility, declining growth, currency devaluations or other adverse economic trends, reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which moody's provides ratings services and thereby adversely affect the fees moody's earns in its ratings business. economic and government factors such as a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions, a re-emergence of the sovereign debt crisis in europe, the ultimate impact of brexit and current uncertainty in various other jurisdictions, may have an adverse impact on the company's business. future debt issuances also could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, widening credit spreads, regulatory and political developments, growth in the use of alternative sources of credit, and defaults by significant issuers. declines or other changes in the markets for debt securities may materially and adversely affect the company's business, operating results and financial condition. moody's initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business may not be sufficient and cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the company's operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, cost-reduction initiatives, including those under-taken to date, could make it difficult for the company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. volatility in the financial markets, including changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition, which the company may not be able to successfully offset with cost reductions. the company faces increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers. there is price competition in the credit rating, research, credit risk management markets, research and analytical services and financial training and certification services. moody's faces competition globally from other cras and from investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions in research, as well as from in-house research operations. competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and services, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, a challenging business environment and consolidation among customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of competitors and reduce the company's customer base. weak economic growth intensifies competitive pricing pressures and can result in customers' use of free or lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources or their development of alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk that replace the products currently purchased from moody's. while moody's seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and services, it can lose market share when its pricing is not sufficiently competitive. in addition, the reform act was designed to encourage competition among rating agencies. the formation of additional nrsros may increase pricing and competitive pressures. furthermore, in some of the countries in which moody's operates, governments may provide financial or other support to local rating agencies. any inability of moody's to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its products and services will have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to reputation and credibility concerns. moody's reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody's, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, moody's business will be significantly impacted. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities and intentional, poor representation of our products and services by our partners or agents or unintentional misrepresentations of moody's products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications. operational errors, whether by moody's or a moody's competitor, could also harm the reputation of the company or the credit rating industry. damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on moody's business, operating results and financial condition, as well as on the company's ability to find suitable candidates for acquisition. 22 moody's 2019 10-k table of contents the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies can negatively impact the nature and economics of the company's business. the markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, research and analytical services and financial training and certification services are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer demands, and evolving regulatory requirements, industry standards and market preferences. the ability to develop and successfully launch and maintain innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers' changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends in a timely and cost-effective manner is a key factor in maintaining market share. moody's competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, and smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody's, or may position, price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by moody's. moody's also competes indirectly against consulting firms and technology and information providers; these indirect competitors could in the future choose to compete directly with moody's, cease doing business with moody's or change the terms under which it does business with moody's in a way that could negatively impact our business. in addition, customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody's products and services and its growth prospects. further, the increased availability in recent years of free or relatively inexpensive internet information may reduce the demand for moody's products and services. moody's growth prospects also could be adversely affected by moody's failure to make necessary or optimal capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements and the inability of its information technologies to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. any inability of moody's to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. moody's is exposed to risks related to loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures. moody's success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and moody's ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing industries. as greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at public companies, in the future, moody's may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than moody's. moody's also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. additionally, relocation and/or restaffing of employees due to brexit could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talent for our european operations. there is a risk that even when the company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed. moody's is highly dependent on the continued services of raymond w. mcdaniel, jr., the president and chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees. the loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and moody's inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on moody's business, operating results and financial condition. moody's acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions or internal technology investments may not produce anticipated results exposing the company to future significant impairment charges relating to its goodwill, intangible assets or property and equipment. moody's has entered into and expects to continue to enter into acquisition, disposition or other strategic transactions and expects to make various investments to strengthen its business and grow the company. such transactions as well as internal technology investments present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets, dispositions and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect moody's ability to complete such transactions and complete such transactions on favorable terms. if moody's is unsuccessful in completing such transactions on favorable terms or if opportunities for expansion do not arise, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. additionally, the company makes significant investments in technology including software developed for internal-use which is time-intensive and complex to implement. such investments may not be successful or may not result in the anticipated benefits resulting in asset write-offs. moody's 2019 10-k 23 table of contents in august 2017, moody's acquired bureau van dijk for $3,542 million. the anticipated synergies of the bureau van dijk acquisition, as well as other completed transactions, may not be fully realized due to a variety of factors. any strategic transaction involves a number of risks, including unanticipated challenges regarding integration of operations, technologies and new employees; the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by the company prior to closing a transaction; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; scrutiny from competition and antitrust authorities; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; future developments that impair the value of purchased goodwill or intangible assets; diversion of management's focus from other business operations; failure to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies; challenges retaining the customers of the acquired business; coordination of product, sales, marketing and program and systems management functions; integration of employees from the acquired business into moody's organization; integration of the acquired business's accounting, information technology, human resources, legal and other administrative systems with moody's; risks that acquired systems expose us to cybersecurity risks; and for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on moody's business, operating results and financial condition. at december 31, 2019, moody's had $3,722 million of goodwill and $1,498 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet, both of which increased significantly due to the acquisition of bureau van dijk in 2017. approximately 92% of the goodwill and intangible assets reside in the ma business, including those related to bureau van dijk, and are allocated to the five reporting units within ma: content; ers; mals; bureau van dijk; and reis. the remaining 8% of goodwill and intangible assets reside in mis and primarily relate to icra. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in a significant asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be especially difficult in periods of market or economic uncertainty and turmoil, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. in addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. an asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on moody's business, operating results and financial condition. c. technology risks the company is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information. the company's operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to its business operations and confidential and sensitive information about its customers and employees in the company's computer systems and networks, and in those of its third party vendors. the cyber risks the company faces range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target the company because of its prominence in the global marketplace, or due to its ratings of sovereign debt. breaches of moody's or moody's vendors' technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, phishing attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, or malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions, may result in manipulation or corruption of sensitive data, material interruptions or malfunctions in the company's or such vendors' web sites, applications, data processing, or disruption of other business operations, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information held by the company (including information about moody's business, employees or customers), as well as sensitive personally identifiable information (pii), the disclosure of which could lead to identity theft. measures that moody's takes to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. further, the company may be exposed to additional cyber threats as the company migrates its data from legacy systems to cloud-based solutions, and increased dependence on third parties to store cloud-based data subjects the company to further cyber risks. the company has invested and continues to invest in risk management and information security measures in order to protect its systems and data, including employee training, disaster plans, and technical defenses. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex, and sophisticated global cyber threats. despite the company's best efforts, it is not fully insulated from data breaches and system disruptions. further, the extent of a particular cybersecurity incident and the steps needed to investigate may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before such an investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the incident, including the extent of the harm and how best to remediate it, is known. recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cybersecurity requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers. any material breaches of cybersecurity, including the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data, or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to the company's systems or those of the company's third parties, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could cause the company to experience reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, fines, regulatory actions and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard the company's customers' information, or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. 24 moody's 2019 10-k table of contents any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on moody's business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to risks related protection of confidential information to conduct its operations, the company regularly moves data across national borders, and consequently is subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to moody's is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, greatly increased the jurisdictional reach of european union privacy law and added a broad array of requirements for processing personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches. failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenue. additionally, other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. further, california recently enacted legislation, the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), that will, among other things, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to california consumers, and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the ccpa before it goes into effect, and it remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to this legislation or how it will be interpreted. the effects of the ccpa potentially are significant, however, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements have required changes to certain business practices, thereby increasing costs, requiring significant management time and attention, and subjecting the company to negative publicity, as well as remedies that may harm its business, including fines, modified demands or orders. the cessation of existing business practices, and exposure to litigation, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties. the company is dependent on the use of third-party software, data, hosted solutions, data centers, cloud and network infrastructure (together, third party technology ), and any reduction in third-party product quality or service offerings, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. moody's relies on third party technology in connection with its product development and offerings and operations. the company depends on the ability of third party technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third party technology moody's uses can become obsolete or restrictive, incompatible with future versions of the company's products, unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and moody's business could be adversely affected when the company is unable to timely or effectively replace such third party technology. the company also monitors its use of third party technology to comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. despite the company's efforts, the company cannot ensure that such third parties will permit moody's use in the future, resulting in increased third party technology acquisition costs and loss of rights. in addition, the company's operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for third party technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third party technology are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also moody's competitors, increasing the risks noted above. when any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. moody's 2019 10-k 25 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 on page 51 of this annual report on form 10-k. moody's 2019 10-k 59 table of contentsrisk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets approximately 80% of moody revenue in 2005 was derived from ratings, a significant portion of which was related to the issuance of credit-sensitive securities in the global capital markets. moody revenue growth from these sources in 2005 was in line with its compound annual growth rate from 2001 through 2004 as continued strength in global structured finance, strong financial institutions issuance and ratings of bank credit facilities was partially offset by the impacts of declines in u.s. high yield issues and in investment grade corporate finance issuance volumes in the u.s. and europe. the company anticipates that a substantial part of its business will continue to be dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. therefore, the company results could be adversely affected by a reduction in the level of debt issuance. unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which moody provides ratings services. in addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. a sustained period of market decline or weakness could also have a material adverse effect on moody business and financial results. possible loss of market share or revenue through competition or regulation the markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are increasingly competitive. moody competes on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of ratings, client service, research, reputation, regulatory qualification, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. for example, a large investment grade default could impact the company reputation and potentially lead to greater regulatory oversight. moody faces increasing competition from s&amp;p, fitch, dbrs, local rating agencies in a number of jurisdictions and niche companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as a.m. best company, inc., with respect to the insurance industry). since moody believes that some of its most significant challenges and opportunities will arise outside the u.s., it will have to compete with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence or a longer operating history in those markets. these local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support from local governments or other institutions that moody does not receive. currently, moody s, s&amp;p, fitch, dbrs and a.m. best company, inc. are designated as nrsros by the sec. in march 2005, the sec disclosed that in considering the oversight of nrsros, it may pursue a voluntary compliance and oversight framework for rating agencies that are designated as nrsros, or it could seek legislative authority for formal compliance and oversight for nrsros. in april 2005, the sec released for public comment a proposed rule on the definition of nationally recognized statistical rating organization . the proposed definition of the term nrsro is an entity that: (i) issues publicly available credit ratings that are current assessments of the creditworthiness of obligors with respect to specific securities or money market instruments; (ii) is generally accepted in the financial markets as an issuer of credible and reliable ratings, including ratings for a particular industry or geographic segment, by the predominant users of securities ratings; and (iii) uses systematic procedures designed to ensure credible and 13 reliable ratings, manage potential conflicts of interest, and prevent the misuse of nonpublic information, and has sufficient financial resources to ensure compliance with those procedures. numerous market participants, including moody s, responded to the request for comment. moody response can be found on the regulatory affairs page of the company website. in addition, in june 2005 the sec produced technical assistance pursuant to a congressional request, relating to statutory authority that the sec may need if congress determines that it is appropriate to create a comprehensive oversight regime for credit rating agencies. congress had also requested that market participants provide their views on the sec technical assistance. moody comments can be found on the regulatory affairs page of the company website. at present, moody is unable to assess the likelihood of any regulatory changes that may result from the sec ongoing review. however, the elimination of the nrsro concept, retention of the nrsro concept with different regulatory oversight, or sec recognition of additional nrsros could result in loss of market share or revenue for moody s, or higher costs of operations. introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies the markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are increasingly competitive. the ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s. increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers in the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors, moody may lose market share. possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures moody success depends in part upon recruiting and retaining highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives. investment banks and other competitors for analyst talent may be able to offer higher compensation than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. moody ability to compete effectively will continue to depend, among other things, on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. exposure to litigation related to moody rating opinions moody faces litigation from time to time from parties claiming damages relating to ratings actions. in addition, as moody international business expands, these types of claims may increase because foreign jurisdictions may not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those in the u.s. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as is provided by the first amendment). these risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. 14 potential emergence of government-sponsored credit rating agencies when governments adopt regulations that require debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings, the competitive balance among rating agencies and the level of demand for ratings may be positively or negatively affected. government-mandated ratings criteria may also have the effect of displacing objective assessments of creditworthiness. in these circumstances, debt issuers may be less likely to base their choice of rating agencies on criteria such as independence and credibility, and more likely to base their choice on their assumption as to which credit rating agency might provide a higher rating, which may negatively affect the company. potential for new u.s., foreign, state and local legislation and regulations, including those relating to nationally recognized statistical rating organizations in the united states and other countries, the laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies continue to evolve and are presently subject to review by a number of legislative or regulatory bodies, including the sec in the united states and the cesr on behalf of the european union. it is possible that such reviews could lead to greater oversight or regulation concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. such additional regulations could, potentially, increase the costs associated with the operation of a credit rating agency, alter the rating agencies communications with the issuers as part of the rating assignment process, increase the legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings, change the regulatory framework to which credit rating agencies are subject and/or affect the competitive environment in which credit rating agencies operate. a description of certain of the more recent regulatory initiatives in the united states and other countries is described above under the section entitled regulation in item 1, business , of this form 10-k. at present, moody is unable to predict the regulatory changes that may result from ongoing reviews by the sec or other regulatory bodies or the effect that any such changes may have on its business. exposure to increased risk from multinational operations moody maintains offices outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from sources outside the u.s. operations in different countries expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: changes in legal and regulatory requirements affecting either moody operations or its customers use of ratings possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into u.s. dollars currency fluctuations export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers difficulty in staffing and managing offices as a result of, among other things, distance, travel, cultural differences and intense competition for trained personnel longer payment cycles and problems in collecting receivables political and economic instability potentially adverse tax consequences any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the company in the future. 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets approximately 80% of moody revenue in 2006 was derived from ratings, a significant portion of which was related to the issuance of credit-sensitive securities in the global capital markets. the company anticipates that a substantial part of its business will continue to be dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. therefore, the company results could be adversely affected by a reduction in the level of debt issuance. unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which moody provides ratings services. in addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant regulatory, political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. a sustained period of market decline or weakness could also have a material adverse effect on moody business and financial results. possible loss of market share or revenue through competition or regulation the markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are increasingly competitive. moody competes on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of ratings, customer service, research, reputation, regulatory qualification, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. for example, a large investment grade default could impact the company reputation and potentially lead to greater regulatory oversight. moody faces competition from, among others, s&amp;p, fitch, dbrs, local rating agencies in a number of international jurisdictions and niche companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as a.m. best company, inc., with respect to the insurance industry). since moody believes that some of its most significant challenges and opportunities will arise outside the u.s., it will have to compete with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence or a longer operating history in those markets. these local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support from local governments or other institutions that moody does not receive. currently, moody s, s&amp;p, fitch, dbrs and a.m. best company, inc. are designated as nrsros by the sec. in september 2006, the united states congress passed into law the credit rating agency reform act of 2006. as a direct result, the sec is mandated to complete a rule-making process which implements the legislation (see regulation , above, for further information) by june 2007. at present, moody is unable to assess the impact of any regulatory changes that may result from the sec rule-making process. introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies the markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are competitive. the ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s. moody growth prospects could also be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products. increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers in the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors, moody may lose market share. 10 possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures moody success depends in part upon recruiting and retaining highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives. investment banks and other competitors for analyst talent may be able to offer higher compensation than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. moody may lose key employees due to other factors, such as catastrophes, that could lead to disruption of business operations. moody ability to compete effectively will continue to depend, among other things, on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. exposure to litigation related to moody rating opinions moody faces litigation from time to time from parties claiming damages relating to ratings actions. in addition, as moody international business expands, these types of claims may increase because foreign jurisdictions may not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those in the u.s. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as is provided by the first amendment). these risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. potential emergence of government-sponsored credit rating agencies when governments adopt regulations that require debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings, the competitive balance among rating agencies and the level of demand for ratings may be positively or negatively affected. government-mandated ratings criteria may also have the effect of displacing objective assessments of creditworthiness. in these circumstances, debt issuers may be less likely to base their choice of rating agencies on criteria such as independence and credibility, and more likely to base their choice on their assumption as to which credit rating agency might provide a higher rating, which may negatively affect the company. potential for new u.s., foreign, state and local legislation and regulations, including those relating to nationally recognized statistical rating organizations in the united states and other countries, the laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies continue to evolve and are presently subject to review by a number of legislative or regulatory bodies, including the sec in the united states and the cesr on behalf of the european union. it is possible that such reviews could lead to greater oversight or regulation concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. such additional regulations could, potentially, increase the costs associated with the operation of a credit rating agency, alter the rating agencies communications with the issuers as part of the rating assignment process, increase the legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings, change the regulatory framework to which credit rating agencies are subject and/or affect the competitive environment in which credit rating agencies operate. a description of certain of the more recent regulatory initiatives in the united states and other countries is described above under the section entitled regulation in item 1. business , of this form 10-k. at present, moody is unable to predict the regulatory changes that may result from ongoing reviews by the sec or other regulatory bodies or the effect that any such changes may have on its business. exposure to increased risk from multinational operations moody maintains offices outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from sources outside the u.s. operations in different countries expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: changes in legal and regulatory requirements affecting either moody operations or its customers use of ratings possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into u.s. dollars currency fluctuations export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers difficulty in staffing and managing offices as a result of, among other things, distance, travel, cultural differences and intense competition for trained personnel longer payment cycles and problems in collecting receivables 11 political and economic instability potentially adverse tax consequences any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the company in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. 32risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occurs, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets approximately 79% of moody revenue in 2007 was derived from ratings. revenues from ratings, in turn, are dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. accordingly, any conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which moody provides ratings services, and thereby, have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. factors that could reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities include unfavorable financial or economic conditions. in addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant regulatory, political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively affect the general level of debt issuance and/or the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers. beginning in july 2007, there has been a significant disruption in world financial markets, particularly in the credit markets. a sustained period of market decline or weakness, especially if it relates to credit sensitive securities, for which there is typically a high level of demand for ratings, could have a material adverse effect on moody business and financial results. the company has recently noted a substantial reduction in the volume of debt securities issued and related revenues as a result of the uncertainties presently being experienced in the market for collateralized debt and other structured finance obligations. revenue earned from ratings in 2007 was approximately 9% higher as compared to 2006, however, ratings revenue in the second half of 2007 compared to the second half of 2006 decreased approximately 11% due to the reduced number of credit-sensitive securities issued in the latter half of 2007 as a result of the credit turmoil beginning early in the third quarter of 2007. there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that results will not continue to be adversely affected. to the extent that any concerns affecting credibility are perceived in the marketplace moody market share and/or revenue could be affected moody reputation is one key factor on the basis of which it competes. moody is constantly taking steps to help maintain the absolute trustworthiness of its reputation, as well as its credibility in the marketplace. accordingly, to the extent that rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be adversely affected. factors that could affect one's credibility include, potentially, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities by a particular rating agency, as well as the ability to recognize potential changes in ratings on a timely basis. increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers in the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors, moody may lose market share. introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies the markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. the ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s. moody growth prospects could also be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. 10 regulation as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization and potential for new u.s., state and local legislation and regulations when governments adopt regulations that require debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings, the competitive balance among rating agencies and the level of demand for ratings may be positively or negatively affected. government-mandated ratings criteria may also have the effect of displacing objective assessments of creditworthiness. in these circumstances, debt issuers may be less likely to base their choice of rating agencies on criteria such as independence and credibility, and more likely to base their choice on their assumption as to which credit rating agency might provide a higher rating, which may negatively affect the company. in the united states and other countries, the laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies continue to evolve and are presently subject to review by a number of legislative or regulatory bodies, including the sec in the united states and state and local oversight. it is possible that such reviews could lead to greater oversight or regulation concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. such additional regulations could, potentially, increase the costs associated with the operation of a credit rating agency, alter the rating agencies communications with the issuers as part of the rating assignment process, increase the legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings, change the regulatory framework to which credit rating agencies are subject and/or affect the competitive environment in which credit rating agencies operate. currently, moody is designated as an nrsro pursuant to sec regulation enacted in response to the adoption of the reform act. one of the central promises of the reform act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. given its recent adoption, moody is unable to assess the future impact of any regulatory changes that may result from the sec regulations or the impact on moody competitive position or its current practices, although moody would expect the reform act to increase costs of all entities engaged in the rating agency business. similarly, at present, moody is unable to predict the regulatory changes that may result from ongoing reviews by any of the various regulatory bodies or the effect that any such changes may have on its business. a description of several of the more recent regulatory initiatives in the united states and other countries is described above under the section entitled regulation in item 1. business , of this form 10-k. potential for increased competition and regulation in foreign jurisdictions moody maintains offices outside the u.s. and derives a significant and increasing portion of its revenue from sources outside the u.s. operations in different countries expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into u.s. dollars and currency fluctuations, export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers, political and economic instability as well as nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables, and potentially adverse tax consequences. moody faces competition from, among others, s&amp;p, fitch, dbrs, local rating agencies in a number of international jurisdictions and specialized companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as a.m. best company, inc., with respect to the insurance industry). since moody believes that some of its most significant challenges and opportunities will arise outside the u.s., it will have to compete with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence or a longer operating history in those markets. these local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support from local governments or other institutions that moody does not receive, putting moody at a competitive disadvantage. because moody operates globally and plans to expand its international scope, it must also react to regulatory changes abroad. cesr has monitored rating agencies compliance with the iosco code. although the cesr recently concluded in a report that the four internationally active rating agencies that operate in the european union, including moody s, are largely compliant with the iosco code, it did identify a few areas where it believed the rating agencies could improve their processes and disclosures and where the iosco code could be improved. cesr indicated that it will look into these areas in particular, as well as the impact of the reform act and the sec implementing rules on the rating business in the european union. moody is unable to assess the potential impact of any regulatory changes that may result from the cesr review, including whether any additional regulation would restrict or otherwise inhibit moody expansion into foreign markets. see the discussion under the section entitled regulation in item 1. business , of this form 10-k, for additional information regarding the iosco code and the cesr. 11 exposure to litigation related to moody rating opinions currently, moody has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities, as part of ongoing investigations, and is cooperating with those inquiries. the outcome of such investigations is presently unknown. in addition, moody faces litigation from time to time from parties claiming damages relating to ratings actions, as well as other related actions. as moody international business expands, these types of claims may increase or become more costly because foreign jurisdictions may not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those in the u.s. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as is provided by the first amendment and criminal rather than civil penalties). these risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures moody success depends in part upon recruiting and retaining highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. investment banks and other competitors for analyst talent may be able to offer higher compensation than moody or subject employees to less individual scrutiny. moody also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. moody may lose key employees due to other factors, such as catastrophes, that could lead to disruption of business operations. moody ability to compete effectively will continue to depend, among other things, on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications or other services used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. we do not have fully redundant systems for most of our smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of these locations and our personnel in those locations are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients and customers from these locations may suffer. our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties' or third parties' operations. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. 42risk factors 18-21 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets approximately 49% of mis revenue for 2008 was transaction-based, compared to 68% of mis revenue in 2007. revenue from rating transactions, in turn, is dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. accordingly, any conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which moody provides ratings services, and thereby, have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. a significant disruption in world financial markets, particularly in the credit markets, that began in mid-2007 worsened materially in the second half of 2008, particularly in the latter portion of the year when many credit markets experienced a severe lack of liquidity. these credit market disruptions together with the current economic slowdown have negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. consequently, the company has experienced a substantial reduction in the demand for rating newly issued debt securities resulting in a 32% decrease in mis revenue for 2008 compared to 2007. the timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and other financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the future or that financial results will not continue to be adversely affected. a sustained period of market decline or weakness, especially if it relates to credit sensitive securities, for which there is typically a high level of demand for ratings, could have a material adverse effect on moody business and financial results. initiatives that the company has undertaken to reduce costs may not be sufficient to offset the results of a prolonged or more severe downturn, and further cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the near term, due in part to rent, technology and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, the cost-reduction initiatives undertaken to date could result in strains in the company operations if the credit markets and demand for ratings return to levels that prevailed prior to mid-2007 or otherwise unexpectedly surge. other factors that could further reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities include increases in interest rates or credit spreads, continued volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant regulatory, political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit including financial institutions and government sources, defaults of significant issuers and other unfavorable market and economic conditions. regulation as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization and potential for new domestic and overseas legislation and regulations credit rating agencies are regulated in both the u.s. and in other countries (including by state and local authorities). currently, moody is designated as an nrsro pursuant to sec regulation enacted in response to the adoption of the reform act. one of the central promises of the reform act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. given its adoption, moody is unable to assess the future impact of any regulatory changes that may result from the sec regulations or the impact on moody competitive position or its current practices. possible consequences of these new regulations include issues that may affect all entities engaged in the rating agency business, such as expected increased costs, or issues that may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. any of these changes could negatively impact moody operations or profitability, the company ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in addition, over the past year, both the g-7 and the g-20 finance ministers and central bank governors have sought to analyze and arrive at a consistent approach for addressing the various areas of the financial market and have made a variety of recommendations as to regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. finance ministers have also agreed to register rating agencies in their home jurisdiction. as a result, of the internationally coordinated activity, individual countries likely will begin implementing registration regimes for the oversight of cras in the coming years. in particular, the european commission presently is re-examining the regulatory framework for rating agencies in europe. in november 2008, the 18 moody 2008 annual report financials table of contents commission published a draft regulation for the oversight of regulating rating agencies that operate in the eu. it is as yet too early to assess the form and content of this re-evaluation. as with the recent regulatory initiatives in the u.s., these initiatives may affect all entities engaged in the rating agency business or may affect moody in a disproportionate manner, and could negatively impact moody operations or profitability, the company ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in addition to the foregoing, many legislative and regulatory agencies, both in the u.s. and in other countries, have been studying or pursuing new laws and regulations addressing cras and the use of credit ratings. it is possible that such initiatives could lead to additional laws or regulations affecting moody operations or profitability, the company ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services. this could include adopting regulations that require debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings, which could negatively affect competition among rating agencies, the level of demand for ratings or the company ability to provide objective assessments of creditworthiness. additional regulations could, potentially, increase the costs associated with the operation of a cra, alter the rating agencies communications with the issuers as part of the rating assignment process, increase the legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings, change the regulatory framework to which cras are subject and affect the competitive environment in which cras operate. as existing laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies continue to evolve and new laws or regulations are adopted, the costs of compliance may increase and moody may not be able to pass these costs through the pricing of its products. in addition, increased regulatory uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of laws and regulations may increase costs, decrease demand or affect the manner in which moody or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, or alter the economics of the credit ratings business by restricting or mandating the business models under which an nrsro is permitted to operate. a description of several of the more recent regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and other countries is described above under the section entitled regulation in item 1. business , of this form 10-k. legal, economic and regulatory risks of operating in foreign jurisdictions moody maintains offices outside the u.s. and derives a significant and increasing portion of its revenue from sources outside the u.s. in addition to the regulatory risks discussed above, operations in different countries expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into u.s. dollars and currency fluctuations; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations including regulations applicable under the office of foreign asset control and the foreign corrupt practices act; domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; political and economic instability; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; and potentially adverse tax consequences. in addition to competition from other rating agencies that operate in a number of international jurisdictions and specialized companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as a.m. best company, inc., with respect to the insurance industry), in many foreign countries moody will have to compete with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence and greater familiarity or a longer operating history in those markets. these local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support from local governments or other institutions that moody does not receive, putting moody at a competitive disadvantage. uncertain impact of government actions to stabilize financial institutions and markets the u.s. government announced several programs in 2008, including the emergency economic stabilization act, the october 14, 2008 joint statement by the u.s. treasury, federal reserve and fdic announcing the troubled asset relief program through which the government is authorized to purchase up to $700 billion in whole loans and mortgage-related securities as well as to invest directly in financial institutions, the treasury department money market mutual fund guaranty program, the federal reserve commercial paper funding facility and payment of interest on reserve balances, the fdic temporary liquidity guarantee program and the february 10, 2009 statement by the u.s. treasury. additionally, the governments of many nations and international organizations such as the international monetary fund have announced similar measures for institutions and countries around the world. there is no assurance that these programs individually or collectively will have beneficial effects in the credit markets, will address credit or liquidity issues of companies that participate in the programs, will reduce volatility or uncertainty in the financial markets or will reverse or moderate the slowdown and downturn of world economies. the failure of these programs to have their intended effects could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the company business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, these and moody 2008 annual report financials 19 table of contents similar initiatives could reduce the demand for ratings of credit securities or other financial products, could result in increased government regulation of such markets and could have other unanticipated adverse effects on the markets for and demand for debt securities and/or for ratings of such instruments. increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers in the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service. at the same time, bankruptcies and consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of customers. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors, moody may lose market share. introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies the markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. the ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by the company. customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and the company growth prospects. in addition, moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. exposure to litigation related to moody rating opinions currently, moody has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities, as part of ongoing investigations, and is cooperating with those inquiries. in addition, moody faces litigation from parties claiming damages relating to ratings actions, as well as other related actions. in these difficult economic times, when the value of credit-dependent instruments has declined and defaults have increased, the number of investigations and legal proceedings moody is facing has increased. these proceedings impose additional expenses on the company, which may increase over time as these matters progress procedurally, require the attention of senior management to an extent that may reduce their ability to devote significant time addressing other business issues, and may result in fines or damages if we are deemed to have violated any laws or regulations. as moody international business expands, these types of claims may increase or become more costly because foreign jurisdictions may not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those in the u.s. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as provided by the first amendment and may pose criminal rather than civil penalties for non-compliance). these risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and we may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover them, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. exposure to reputational and credibility concerns moody reputation is one of the key bases on which the company competes. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or that moody s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be adversely affected. factors that could affect credibility include, potentially, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities by a particular rating agency, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, adverse publicity as to the ratings process and the appearance of a conflict of interest. possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures moody success depends in part upon recruiting and retaining highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by offering higher compensation than moody or providing more favorable working conditions. moody also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. moody may also lose key employees due to other factors, such as catastrophes, that could lead to disruption of business operations. moody ability to compete effectively will continue to depend, among other things, on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. 20 moody 2008 annual report financials table of contents moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail moody ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications or other services used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of major operating systems may not be successful. the company does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, its ability to service and interact with moody clients and customers may suffer. the company operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. although moody takes protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, its computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize moody or its clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, its computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the company s, its clients , its counterparties or third parties operations. moody may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and the company may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by moody s. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55risk factors 17-20 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets approximately 50% of mis revenue for 2009 was transaction-based, compared to 49% of mis revenue in 2008 and 68% of mis' revenue in 2007. revenue from rating transactions, in turn, is dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. accordingly, any conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which moody provides ratings services and thereby have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. a significant disruption in world financial markets, particularly in the credit markets, began in mid-2007, when many credit markets experienced a severe lack of liquidity. this disruption continues to be felt. these credit market disruptions together with the current economic slowdown have negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. notwithstanding a recent increase in investment-grade and speculative-grade debt issuances in 2009, future issuance could be negatively affected by a sharp increase in long-term interest rates or factors which cause instability or volatility in the global capital markets. new debt issuances in the structured finance market are likely to continue to be significantly below peak levels reached in the middle of the past decade. consequently, the company has experienced a substantial reduction in the overall demand for rating newly issued debt securities. changes in the markets and the role, regulation and structure of rating agencies may have material adverse effects on the company even if the markets recover. the timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and other financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the future or that financial results will not continue to be adversely affected. a sustained period of market decline or weakness, especially if it relates to credit sensitive securities, for which there was historically a high level of demand for ratings, could continue to have a material adverse effect on moody business and financial results. initiatives that the company has undertaken to reduce costs may not be sufficient to offset the results of a continued or more severe downturn, and further cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the near term, due in part to rent, technology and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, the cost-reduction initiatives undertaken to date could result in strains in the company operations if the credit markets and demand for ratings return to levels that prevailed prior to mid-2007 or otherwise unexpectedly surge. other factors that could further reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities include increases in interest rates or credit spreads, continued volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant regulatory, political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit including financial institutions and government sources, defaults of significant issuers and other unfavorable market and economic conditions. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional credit rating agencies, such as moody's. the sec and other regulatory and governmental authorities globally have also been proposing and implementing changes in existing rules to decrease the reliance on ratings for regulatory purposes. decreases in the use of ratings in debt issuances or reliance upon non-cra risk evaluations could result in reduced revenues and adversely impact moody's results. finally, given the changing regulatory and market environment, even if credit markets revive, there is no assurance that the demand for credit ratings would follow prior patterns. as such, no assurance can be given as to the amount of revenues that would be derived there from. regulation as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization and potential for new domestic and overseas legislation and regulations credit rating agencies are regulated in both the u.s. and in other countries (including by state and local authorities). currently, moody is designated as an nrsro pursuant to sec regulations enacted in response to the adoption of the reform act. one of the central promises of the reform act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. given its comparatively recent adoption and the number of additional reforms being proposed and considered, moody is unable accurately to assess the future impact of any regulatory changes that may result from the sec regulations or the impact on moody competitive position or its current practices. possible consequences of these new regulations include issues that may affect all entities engaged in the rating agency business, such as expected increased costs, or issues that may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. any of these changes could negatively moody 2009 10-k 17 table of contents impact moody operations or profitability, the company ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. further, over the past year, both the g-8 and the g-20 finance ministers and central bank governors have sought to analyze and arrive at a consistent approach for addressing the various areas of the financial market and have made a variety of recommendations as to regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. finance ministers have also agreed to register rating agencies in their home jurisdiction. as a result, of the internationally coordinated activity, individual countries have begun implementing registration regimes for the oversight of cras in the coming years. in particular, the european union adopted a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the e.u. the regulation seeks to introduce a common eu regulatory approach to the oversight of cras. its primary objective is to enhance the integrity, transparency, responsibility, governance and reliability of credit rating activities, by laying down conditions for the issuance of credit ratings and rules on the organization and conduct of credit rating agencies. the regulation will likely become fully implemented by the second quarter of 2010. as with the recent regulatory initiatives in the u.s., these initiatives may affect all entities engaged in the rating agency business or may affect moody in a disproportionate manner, and could negatively impact moody operations or profitability, the company ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in addition to the foregoing, in the wake of the credit crisis, many legislative and regulatory agencies, both in the u.s. and in other countries, have been studying or pursuing new laws and regulations addressing cras and the use of credit ratings, particularly in the area of structured finance securities, and the role of cras in leading up to such disruptions. given the g-20 statement, it is likely that such initiatives will lead to additional laws or regulations affecting moody operations or profitability, the company ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services. this could include adopting regulations that affect the need for debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings, which could negatively affect competition among rating agencies, the level of demand for ratings or the company ability to provide objective assessments of creditworthiness. additional regulations are likely to increase the costs associated with the operation of a cra, alter the rating agencies communications with the issuers as part of the rating assignment process, increase the legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings, change the regulatory framework to which cras are subject and affect the competitive environment in which cras operate. as existing laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies continue to evolve and new laws or regulations are adopted, the costs of compliance can be expected to increase, and moody may not be able to pass these costs through the pricing of its products. in addition, increased regulatory uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of laws and regulations may increase costs, decrease demand or affect the manner in which moody or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, or alter the economics of the credit ratings business by restricting or mandating the business models under which a cra is permitted to operate. moody's stock price may also be affected by speculation regarding legislative and regulatory initiatives and their potential impact on moody's business. a description of several of the more recent regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and other countries is described above under the section entitled regulation in item 1. business , of this form 10-k. legal, economic and regulatory risks of operating in foreign jurisdictions moody maintains offices outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from sources outside the u.s. in addition to the regulatory risks discussed above, operations in different countries expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into u.s. dollars and currency fluctuations; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations including regulations applicable under the office of foreign asset control and the foreign corrupt practices act; domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; political and economic instability; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; and potentially adverse tax consequences. in addition to competition from other rating agencies that operate in a number of international jurisdictions and specialized companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as a.m. best company, inc., with respect to the insurance industry), in many foreign countries moody will have to compete with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence and greater familiarity or a longer operating history in those markets. these local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support from local governments or other institutions that moody does not receive, putting moody at a competitive disadvantage. uncertain impact of government actions to stabilize financial institutions and markets the u.s. government announced several programs in 2008, including the emergency economic stabilization act, the october 14, 2008 joint statement by the u.s. treasury, federal reserve and fdic announcing the troubled asset relief program through which the government is authorized to purchase up to $700 billion in whole loans and mortgage-related securities as well as to invest directly in financial institutions, the treasury department money market mutual fund guaranty program, the federal reserve commercial paper 18 moody 2009 10-k table of contents funding facility and payment of interest on reserve balances, the fdic temporary liquidity guarantee program and the february 10, 2009 statement by the u.s. treasury. additionally, the governments of many nations and international organizations such as the international monetary fund have announced similar measures for institutions and countries around the world. there is no assurance that these programs individually or collectively will have beneficial effects in the credit markets, will address credit or liquidity issues of companies that participate in the programs, will reduce volatility or uncertainty in the financial markets or will reverse or moderate the slowdown and downturn of world economies. the failure of these programs to have their intended effects could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the company business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, these and similar initiatives could reduce the demand for ratings of credit securities or other financial products, could result in increased government regulation of such markets and could have other unanticipated adverse effects on the markets for and demand for debt securities and/or for ratings of such instruments. increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers in the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, bankruptcies and consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of customers. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors, moody may lose market share. introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies the markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. the ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by the company. customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and the company growth prospects. in addition, moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. significant amount of intangible assets moody's has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet consisting of $349.2 million of goodwill and $104.9 of amortizable intangible assets. approximately 97% of these intangibles reside in the ma business and are allocated to the three reporting units within ma: rd&amp;a; rms; and training. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in one or all of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge which would reduce net income in the period the impairment is recorded. impairment of goodwill or intangibles would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. an impairment would result if the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group which holds goodwill or any intangible assets is less than the carrying amount of its net assets. a significant factor in the determination of the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group is its projected cash flows. future cash flows of ma are dependent on a variety of factors such as, but not limited to, general economic growth, capital market activity, product innovation, pricing, market share and competition. the breakdown in or the failure to achieve success in managing one or a combination of these factors could lead to reduced cash flows resulting in an asset impairment charge. exposure to litigation related to moody rating opinions currently, moody has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities, as part of ongoing investigations, and is responding to those inquiries. in addition, moody faces litigation from parties claiming damages relating to ratings actions, as well as other related business practices. in these difficult economic times and turbulent markets, when the value of credit-dependent instruments has declined and defaults have increased, the number of investigations and legal proceedings moody is facing has increased significantly. these proceedings impose additional expenses on the company, which may increase over time as these matters progress procedurally, require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues, and, given the number of these proceedings and lawsuits, present a greater risk that moody's may be subject to fines or damages, which would be the case if we are deemed to have violated any laws or regulations. as moody international business expands, these types of claims may increase or become more costly because foreign jurisdictions may not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that currently exist in the u.s. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as provided by the first amendment) and may pose criminal rather than civil penalties for non-compliance. these risks often are and may continue to be difficult to assess or quantify and we may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover them, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. moody 2009 10-k 19 table of contents in addition, to the extent that any of the recent legislative initiatives are successful in modifying, in a manner adverse to cras, the rules governing the potential liability of cras in connection with the issuance of ratings, the number of legal proceedings, especially as related to future ratings, may increase materially and the potential exposure of cras thereunder may also increase. exposure to reputational and credibility concerns moody reputation is one of the key bases on which the company competes. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, has suffered a loss in credibility in the course of the credit crisis, or, in the future, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be adversely affected. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities by a particular rating agency, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, adverse publicity as to the ratings process, a major compliance failure, and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies. possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures moody success depends in part upon recruiting and retaining highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by or providing more favorable working conditions or, within the limits of today's market constraints, offering higher compensation than moody's. moody also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. moody may also lose key employees due to other factors, such as catastrophes, that could lead to disruption of business operations. moody ability to compete effectively will continue to depend, among other things, on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. the trading price of our stock could be affected by third party actions ownership of our stock is highly concentrated with a majority of our shares held by a few institutional stockholders. due to this concentrated stockholder base, the trading price of our stock could be affected considerably by decisions of significant stockholders to increase or decrease their positions, including any actions taken to implement such a decision. moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail moody ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located, including having its headquarters in new york city and offices in major cities worldwide. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications or other services used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of major operating systems may not be successful. the company does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, their ability to service and interact with moody clients and customers may suffer. the company operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. the business relies upon and processes a great deal of data through its systems, the quality of which must be maintained in order for the business units to perform. although moody takes protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, its computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize moody or its clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, its computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the company s, its clients , its counterparties or third parties operations. moody may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and the company may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by moody s. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 on page 43 of this annual report on form 10-k. moody 2009 10-k 55 table of contentsrisk factors 17-22 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. laws and regulations affecting the credit rating industry are rapidly evolving and may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business credit rating agencies are regulated in both the u.s. and in other countries (including by state and local authorities). over the past few years, many jurisdictions have adopted or proposed new laws and regulations that impact the operation of credit rating agencies and the markets for securities that are rated. additional laws and regulations have been proposed or are being considered, and further legislation or regulation may be proposed or implemented in the future. some of the more prominent developments are discussed below or under the section entitled regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k. these laws and regulations are intended to cause, or may result in, increased competition in the credit rating business. in addition, these laws or regulations may cause or result in (i) alternatives to credit ratings, (ii) regulations or restrictions on how information is used in the development or maintenance of credit ratings, (iii) increased regulatory oversight of the credit markets and credit rating agency operation, or (iv) changes in the pricing of credit ratings. all of these items could result in an increase in costs that moody may not be able to pass through to customers and a decrease in the demand for or changes in the use of credit ratings. new pleading and liability standards that have been adopted in the u.s. and proposed elsewhere potentially subject credit rating agencies to a greater number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities, could result in such legal proceedings continuing for a greater period of time before being resolved, and could result in increased uncertainty over and exposure to liability of credit rating agencies. as new laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies rapidly evolve, the costs of compliance is expected to increase, and moody may not be able to pass on these costs through the pricing of its services. in addition, there may be greater uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of new laws and regulations, which may increase compliance costs and increase the possibility of fines, penalties or other sanctions (including restrictions on activities) being imposed. given the comparatively recent adoption and the number of additional reforms that have been or will be adopted, including those under the legislative and regulatory initiatives discussed below, moody is unable to accurately assess the future impact of any regulatory changes that may result or the impact on moody competitive position or its current practices. although these recent and pending legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. responding to these developments will increase moody fixed and variable costs of operations, perhaps to a degree that is significantly greater than moody currently expects, and moody may not be able to pass through or otherwise recoup such costs. these developments may alter mis communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which mis ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, and decrease demand or affect the manner in which mis or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating the business models under which a rating agency is permitted to operate. moody stock price may also be affected by speculation regarding legislative and regulatory initiatives and their potential impact on moody business and by increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may negatively impact moody operations or profitability, the company ability to compete, or result in changes in the demand for credit ratings, in the manner in which ratings are utilized and in the manner in which moody operates in ways that cannot presently be predicted. in the u.s., mis is designated as an nrsro pursuant to sec regulations adopted under the reform act. one of the central tenets of the reform act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. the reform act established standards for the sec to have direct jurisdiction over credit rating agencies that seek nrsro status and to inspect their operations. in the u.s., one of the tenets of the recently enacted financial reform act is that credit rating agencies perform a gatekeeper role and should be subject to enhanced oversight standards that could result in enhanced liability. the financial reform act amends a number of laws and regulations, requires the sec to adopt a number of rules affecting rating agencies and the use of credit ratings, especially in structured finance markets, and authorizes a number of studies relating to the operations and legal standards applicable to cras. provisions of the financial reform act and other rules that may be adopted by the sec in furtherance of the financial reform act that pose risks to the company business include, among others: heightened compliance standards; increased disclosure obligations; provisions seeking to diminish regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings; moody 2010 10-k 17 table of contents rules potentially mandating disclosure of sensitive issuer information provided to cras for the purpose of developing a rating; a mandate that the sec study the feasibility of establishing a system in which a utility or a self-regulatory organization assigns nrsros to determine the credit ratings of structured finance products to address so-called rating-shopping by issuers and underwriters of structured financial products; and changes to the pleading standards and, by repealing rule 436(g) under the securities act, the liability standards under the federal securities laws if a cra consents to have a rating included in a registration statement or prospectus. the financial reform act rescission of rule 436(g) under the securities act, which was an exemption from expert liability under the securities act for ratings information included in registration statements, could impact moody in a number of ways. sec rules relating to offerings of asset-backed securities that are registered with the sec require certain disclosures regarding credit ratings if, as is common in the market for such securities, the issuance or sale of any class of such asset-backed securities is conditioned on the assignment of a rating by one or more rating agencies. as a result of the repeal of rule 436(g) under the securities act and accordingly the imposition of a heightened liability standard that would result from such disclosures, mis and other credit rating agencies have declined to consent to issuers of such securities making such disclosures regarding their ratings. the staff of the sec has informally advised issuers of asset-backed securities that, pending further review of rulemaking required under the financial reform act, the sec staff will not recommend enforcement action if an issuer omits the ratings disclosure required by sec rules for registered offerings of asset-backed securities. if the sec staff position were reversed or if sec rules otherwise were adopted or applied in a manner that resulted in rating agencies being subject to heightened standards of liability in such offerings, it could adversely impact the volume of securities sold in such offerings, demand for mis ratings, the pricing structure for ratings issued by mis and/or moody exposure to liability and could have other effects that moody is not able to predict, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. in addition, in october 2009, the sec proposed a rule providing that, if credit ratings are used in connection with an offering of any other type of security that is registered under the securities act (which as proposed would include use of a credit rating for certain unregistered securities offerings that are subsequently subject to a registered exchange offer), the ratings must be included in the registration statement. if adopted, this proposal, coupled with the financial reform act rescission of rule 436(g), would mean that common practices used in the u.s. to market and sell securities in such offerings would have to be altered unless mis or other credit rating agencies consented to subject themselves to expert liability provisions of the securities act with respect to their credit ratings. adoption of this or a similar rule could impact the volume of securities sold in such offerings, demand for mis ratings, the pricing structure for ratings issued by mis and/or moody exposure to liability and could have other effects that moody is not able to predict, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. both the g-8 and the g-20 have sought to analyze and arrive at a consistent approach for addressing the various areas of the financial market and have made a variety of recommendations as to regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. specifically, the g-20 has also agreed to require the registration of rating agencies in their home jurisdiction. as a result of the internationally coordinated approach, countries other than the u.s. (which as noted above had already adopted a registration regime for nrsros) have begun the process of implementing registration regimes for the oversight of cras. in particular, the eu adopted a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the eu. the regulation seeks to introduce a common eu regulatory approach to the oversight of cras. its primary objective is to enhance the integrity, transparency, responsibility, governance and reliability of credit rating activities, by establishing conditions for the issuance of credit ratings and rules on the organization and conduct of credit rating agencies, including restrictions on certain activities that are deemed to create a conflict of interest and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. the regulation became fully effective on september 6, 2010. mis applied for registration in august 2010. in addition, the european securities and market authority has been formed which is expected to be fully operational in june 2011 and will have direct supervisory authority for cras in the eu. the european commission has also published a consultation paper that discusses: the potential for increasing the liability or changing the basis of liability of cras for their ratings; the issuer-pay cra business model; amending existing regulations to reduce reliance on ratings by governments and regulated industries; proposed changes to the business model associated with the rating of sovereigns; and increasing competition among cras; the eu parliament is working on its own report discussing a number of these issues. 18 moody 2010 10-k table of contents the foregoing initiatives, if implemented and depending on their terms, could negatively impact moody operations or profitability, ability to compete or the markets for its products and services in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in particular, exposure to increased liability under future eu regulation may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely affect moody results of operations. in addition to the foregoing, in the wake of the credit crisis, legislative and regulatory bodies in both the u.s. and in other countries have adopted or are studying or pursuing new laws and regulations addressing cras and the use of credit ratings, particularly in the area of structured finance securities, and the role of cras leading up to the credit crisis. moody believes that there is still the potential for additional rulemaking that can significantly impact moody business. it is likely that other jurisdictions will adopt additional laws or regulations affecting moody operations or the markets for its products and services. this could include adopting regulations that affect the need for debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings. however, moody cannot predict the extent of the regulations that may be implemented, or the effect that they may have on moody operations or the potential for increased exposure to liability. exposure to litigation related to moody rating opinions moody has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities as part of ongoing investigations following the credit crisis, and is responding to those inquiries. in addition, moody faces a greater amount of litigation than has historically been the case from parties claiming damages relating to ratings actions, as well as other related business practices. due to the difficult economic times and turbulent markets over the last several years, the market value of credit-dependent instruments has declined and defaults have increased, significantly increasing the number of legal proceedings, including investigations, moody is currently facing. these proceedings impose additional expenses on the company, which may increase over time as these matters progress procedurally, require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues, and, given the number of these proceedings, present a greater risk that moody may be subject to fines or damages if moody is deemed to have violated any laws or regulations. in jurisdictions outside the u.s., these types of proceedings may increase or become more costly because foreign jurisdictions may not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that currently exist in the u.s. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as provided by the first amendment) and may pose a greater risk of criminal rather than civil penalties. these risks often are and may continue to be difficult to assess or quantify. moody may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. furthermore, to the extent that moody is unable to achieve dismissals from the various litigation at an early stage and matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs to be incurred by moody could increase substantially, regardless of the ultimate outcome. in addition, as discussed above, the financial reform act revised pleading and liability standards and other provisions potentially subjecting cras to increased liability under securities law claims. the financial reform act and regulations that will be adopted as a result of it may result in a material increase in the number of legal proceedings, especially as related to future ratings, and, together with judicial decisions under the financial reform act and under pre-existing legal standards, may increase the potential legal exposure of cras. changes in liability standards applicable in markets outside the u.s. also could create a greater potential for liability from operating in such markets. the company believes that adoption of these provisions could negatively impact credit markets, including causing cras to cease to issue ratings on certain securities or issuers, increasing the cost of ratings, delaying issuances of ratings and restricting the public availability of ratings, which changes could materially negatively impact the company business and prospects. it is possible that implementing changes to the company operations to address the changed pleading and liability standards may result in lower revenues and/or increased expenses that the company may not be able to recoup or offset, which could be material, and the company may not be successful in avoiding or mitigating the impact of the heightened or changed pleading and liability standards. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets approximately 57% of mis revenue for 2010 was transaction-based, compared to 50% of mis revenue in 2009 and 49% of mis revenue in 2008. revenue from rating transactions is dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. accordingly, any conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which mis provides ratings services and thereby have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. a significant disruption in world financial markets, particularly in the credit markets, began in mid-2007, when many credit markets experienced a severe lack of liquidity. this disruption continues to be felt as the markets gradually recover. credit market disruptions together with an economic slowdown have negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. notwithstanding a strong increase in debt issuances in the corporate, financial institutions and u.s. public finance sectors in 2010, future debt issuances could be negatively affected by a sharp increase in long-term interest rates or factors which cause instability or volatility in the global capital markets. new debt issuances in the structured finance market are likely to con- moody 2010 10-k 19 table of contents tinue to be significantly below peak levels reached in the middle of the past decade. consequently, the company has experienced a reduction in the overall demand for rating newly issued debt securities. changes in the markets for such securities and in the role and regulation of rating agencies may materially adversely affect the company even if the volume of securities issuances in all sectors recovers to or exceeds those experienced prior to 2007. the timing, nature, extent and sustainability of any recovery in the credit and other financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that overall market conditions will improve in the future, that recent improvements will be sustained or that moody financial results will not continue to be adversely affected. a sustained period of market decline or weakness, especially if it relates to credit sensitive securities, for which there was historically a high level of demand for ratings, could have a material adverse effect on moody business and financial results. initiatives that the company has undertaken to reduce costs may not be sufficient, and further cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the near term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, the cost-reduction initiatives undertaken to date could result in strains in the company operations if the credit markets and demand for ratings in all sectors return to levels that prevailed prior to mid-2007 or otherwise unexpectedly increase. other factors that could further reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities include increases in interest rates or credit spreads, continued volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant regulatory, political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit including financial institutions and government sources, defaults of significant issuers and other unfavorable market and economic conditions. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional credit rating agencies, such as mis. changing regulatory considerations and other market developments could negatively affect the demand for credit ratings even if debt security issuances and activities increase. as such, no assurance can be given as to the amount of revenues that may be derived therefrom. legal, economic and regulatory risks of operating in foreign jurisdictions moody maintains offices outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from sources outside the u.s. in addition to the regulatory risks discussed above, operations in different countries expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into u.s. dollars and currency fluctuations; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; political and economic instability; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; and potentially adverse tax consequences. in its non-u.s. operations, moody is subject to regulations applicable under the office of foreign asset control, the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials (which may include companies affiliated with foreign governments) for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the fcpa. internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that the company has implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting its employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing its policies and the law. if moody employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing its international operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. any determination that the company has violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on moody financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. in addition to competition from other rating agencies that operate in a number of international jurisdictions and specialized companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as a.m. best company, inc., with respect to the insurance industry), in many foreign countries mis competes with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence and greater familiarity or a longer operating history in those markets. these local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support from local governments or other institutions that mis does not receive, putting mis at a competitive disadvantage. increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers in the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, bankruptcies and consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of customers. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors, moody may lose market share. in addition, one of the central goals of the reform act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. the formation of additional nrsros may increase pricing, as well as other competitive pressures. 20 moody 2010 10-k table of contents exposure to reputational and credibility concerns moody reputation is one of the key bases on which the company competes. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, has suffered a loss in credibility in the course of the credit crisis, or, in the future, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be adversely affected. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities by a particular rating agency, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, adverse publicity as to the ratings process, a major compliance failure, publicity associated with ongoing litigation and new laws and regulations and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies. these concerns may be disclosed or highlighted in the course of various investigations or lawsuits that have been or may be instituted, through legislative or regulatory hearings or special studies that are mandated by legislation, or through journalists or others attempting to chronicle or report on the recent credit crisis. introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies the markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. the ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by moody s. customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and its growth prospects. in addition, moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. significant amount of intangible assets moody has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet consisting of $465.5 million of goodwill and $168.8 million of amortizable intangible assets. approximately 98% of these intangibles reside in the ma business and are allocated to the four reporting units within ma: rd&amp;a; rms; training, and csi. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in one or all of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge which would reduce net income in the period the impairment is recorded. impairment of goodwill or intangibles would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. an impairment would be recorded if the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group which holds goodwill or any intangible assets is less than the carrying amount of its net assets. a significant factor in the determination of the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group is its projected cash flows. future cash flows of ma are dependent on a variety of factors such as, but not limited to, general economic growth, capital market activity, product innovation, pricing, market share and competition. changes in these factors or in the conduct of moody operations in response to such factors could lead to reduced cash flows resulting in an asset impairment charge. possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures moody success depends in part upon recruiting, retaining and motivating highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering higher compensation than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. the trading price of moody stock could be affected by third party actions ownership of moody stock is highly concentrated with a majority of shares held by a few institutional stockholders. due to this concentrated stockholder base, the trading price of moody stock could be affected considerably by actions of significant stockholders to increase or decrease their positions in moody stock. moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail moody ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located, including having its headquarters in new york city and offices in major cities worldwide. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications or other services used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of major operating systems may not be successful. the company does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, their ability to service and moody 2010 10-k 21 table of contents interact with moody clients and customers may suffer. the company operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. the business relies upon and processes a great deal of data through its systems, the quality of which must be maintained in order for the business units to perform. protective measures that moody takes may be circumvented or may not be sufficient to guard its computer systems, software and networks from unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize moody or its clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, its computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the company s, its clients , its counterparties or third parties operations. moody may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and the company may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by moody s. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 on page 46-47 of this annual report on form 10-k. moody 2010 10-k 57 table of contentsrisk factors 16-22 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. laws and regulations affecting the credit rating industry are rapidly evolving and may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business credit rating agencies are regulated in both the u.s. (by federal, state and local authorities) and in other countries. over the past few years, many jurisdictions have adopted or proposed new laws and regulations that impact the operation of credit rating agencies and the markets for securities that are rated. additional laws and regulations have been proposed or are being considered, and further legislation or regulation may be proposed or implemented in the future. some of the more prominent developments are discussed below or under the section entitled regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k. these laws and regulations are intended to cause, or may result in, increased competition in the credit rating business. in addition, these laws or regulations may cause or result in (i) alternatives to credit ratings, (ii) regulations or restrictions on how information is used in the development or maintenance of credit ratings, (iii) increased regulatory oversight of the credit markets and credit rating agency operation, (iv) limits on the number of years that a credit rating agency can rate securities of a particular issuer, or (v) changes in the pricing of credit ratings. all of these items could result in an increase in costs that moody may not be able to pass through to customers and a decrease in the demand for or changes in the use of credit ratings. new pleading and liability standards that have been adopted in the u.s. and proposed elsewhere may subject credit rating agencies to a greater number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities, may place greater burdens on credit rating agencies to defend themselves, could result in such legal proceedings continuing for a greater period of time before being resolved, and could result in increased uncertainty over and exposure to liability of credit rating agencies. as new laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies rapidly evolve, the costs of compliance are expected to increase, and moody may not be able to pass on these costs through the pricing of its services. in addition, there may be greater uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of new laws and regulations, which may increase compliance costs and increase the possibility of fines, penalties or other sanctions (including restrictions on activities) being imposed. 16 moody 2011 10-k table of contents given the comparatively recent adoption and the number of additional reforms that have been or are proposed to be adopted, including those under the legislative and regulatory initiatives discussed below, moody is unable to accurately assess the future impact of any regulatory changes that may result or the impact on moody competitive position, current practices or business prospects. although these recent and pending legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. responding to these developments will increase moody fixed and variable costs of operations, perhaps to a degree that is significantly greater than moody currently expects, and may materially reduce mis revenue. moody may not be able to pass through or otherwise recoup or offset such costs or lost revenue. these developments may alter mis communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which mis ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, and decrease demand or affect the manner in which mis or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating the business models under which a rating agency is permitted to operate. moody stock price may also be affected by speculation regarding legislative and regulatory initiatives and their potential impact on moody business and by increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may negatively impact moody operations or profitability, the company ability to compete, or result in changes in the demand for credit ratings, in the manner in which ratings are utilized and in the manner in which moody operates in ways that cannot presently be predicted. in the u.s., mis is designated as an nrsro pursuant to sec regulations adopted under the reform act. one of the central tenets of the reform act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. the reform act established standards for the sec to have direct jurisdiction over credit rating agencies that seek nrsro status and to inspect their operations. in the u.s., one of the tenets of the financial reform act enacted in 2011 is that credit rating agencies play an important role in the financial market and should be subject to enhanced oversight standards that could result in enhanced liability. the financial reform act amends a number of laws and regulations, requires the sec to adopt a number of rules affecting rating agencies and the use of credit ratings, especially in structured finance markets, and authorizes a number of studies relating to the operations and legal standards applicable to cras. provisions of the financial reform act and other rules that have recently been or may be adopted by the sec in furtherance of the financial reform act that pose risks to the company business include, among others: heightened compliance standards; increased disclosure obligations; provisions seeking to diminish regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, including the elimination of sec rules that include eligibility standards based on credit ratings; rules potentially mandating disclosure of sensitive issuer information provided to cras for the purpose of developing a rating; a mandate that the sec study the feasibility of establishing a system in which a utility or a self-regulatory organization assigns nrsros to determine the credit ratings of structured finance products to address so-called rating-shopping by issuers and underwriters of structured financial products; and changes to the pleading standards and, by repealing rule 436(g) under the securities act, the liability standards under the federal securities laws if a cra consents to have a rating included in a registration statement or prospectus. the financial reform act rescission of rule 436(g) under the securities act, which was an exemption from expert liability under the securities act for ratings information included in registration statements, could impact moody in a number of ways. sec rules relating to offerings of asset-backed securities that are registered with the sec require certain disclosures regarding credit ratings if, as is common in the market for such securities, the issuance or sale of any class of such asset-backed securities is conditioned on the assignment of a rating by one or more rating agencies. as a result of the repeal of rule 436(g) under the securities act and accordingly the imposition of a heightened liability standard that would result from such disclosures, mis and other credit rating agencies have declined to consent to issuers of such securities making such disclosures regarding their ratings. the staff of the sec has informally advised issuers of asset-backed securities that, pending further review of rulemaking required under the financial reform act, the sec staff will not recommend enforcement action if an issuer omits the ratings disclosure required by sec rules for registered offerings of asset-backed securities. if the sec staff position were reversed or if sec rules otherwise were adopted or applied in a manner that resulted in rating agencies being subject to heightened standards of liability in such offerings, it could adversely impact the volume of securities sold in such offerings, demand for mis ratings, the pricing structure for ratings issued by mis and/or moody exposure to liability and could have other effects that moody is not able to predict, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. in addition, in october 2009, the sec proposed a rule providing that, if credit ratings are used in connection with an offering of any other type of security that is registered under the securities act (which as proposed would include use of a credit rating for certain moody 2011 10-k 17 table of contents unregistered securities offerings that are subsequently subject to a registered exchange offer), the ratings must be included in the registration statement. if adopted, this proposal, coupled with the financial reform act rescission of rule 436(g), would mean that common practices used in the u.s. to market and sell securities in such offerings would have to be altered unless mis or other credit rating agencies consented to subject themselves to expert liability provisions of the securities act with respect to their credit ratings. adoption of this or a similar rule could impact the volume of securities sold in such offerings, demand for mis ratings, the pricing structure for ratings issued by mis and/or moody exposure to liability and could have other effects that moody is not able to predict, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. both the g-8 and the g-20 have sought to analyze and arrive at a consistent approach for addressing various areas of the financial market and have made a variety of recommendations as to regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. specifically, the g-20 has agreed to require the registration of rating agencies in their home jurisdiction. as a result of the internationally coordinated approach, countries other than the u.s. (which as noted above had already adopted a registration regime for nrsros) have begun the process of implementing registration regimes for the oversight of cras. in particular, the eu adopted a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the eu. the regulation seeks to introduce a common eu regulatory approach to the oversight of cras. its primary objective is to enhance the integrity, transparency, responsibility, governance and reliability of credit rating activities, by establishing conditions for the issuance of credit ratings and rules on the organization and conduct of credit rating agencies, including restrictions on certain activities that are deemed to create a conflict of interest and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. the regulation became fully effective on september 6, 2010. mis applied for registration in august 2010 and was granted registration in october 2011. in addition, the european securities and market authority became fully operational in july 2011 and now has direct supervisory authority for cras in the eu. the european commission published a consultation paper on cras at the end of 2010 which covered the following topics: the potential for increasing the liability or changing the basis of liability of cras for their ratings; the issuer-pay cra business model; amending existing regulations to reduce reliance on ratings by governments and regulated industries; proposed changes to the business model associated with the rating of sovereigns; and increasing competition among cras. the eu parliament also published its own report discussing a number of these issues. in furtherance of the foregoing, the european commission issued proposed amendments to the existing regulations. if enacted as proposed, the revised regulations, among other things, would: impose various additional procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers; require eu member states to adopt laws imposing liability on credit rating agencies for an intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by the applicable regulations; potentially impose a greater burden of proof on credit rating agencies accused of failing to abide by applicable regulations; impose rotation requirements on issuers of securities, thereby limiting the number of years a credit rating agency can issue ratings for securities of a particular issuer; enhance esma role in reviewing rating methodologies; and impose additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services. the foregoing initiatives, if implemented and depending on their terms, could have a significant negative effect on moody operations or profitability, ability to compete or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in particular, exposure to increased liability under future eu regulation may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely affect moody results of operations. moody also believes that the commission proposed rotation requirements, if enacted, would lead to a potentially significant decrease in revenue by restricting mis from continuing to rate issuers that currently pay for ratings and in particular frequent issuers. compliance with the amended regulations may also increase costs of operations. in addition to the foregoing, in the wake of the credit crisis, legislative and regulatory bodies in both the us and in other countries have adopted or are studying or pursuing new laws and regulations addressing cras and the use of credit ratings, particularly in the area of structured finance securities, and the role of cras leading up to the credit crisis. 18 moody 2011 10-k table of contents moody believes that there is still the potential for additional rulemaking that can significantly impact moody business. it is likely that other jurisdictions will adopt additional laws or regulations affecting moody operations or the markets for its products and services. this could include adopting regulations that affect the need for debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings. however, moody cannot predict the extent of the regulations that may be implemented, or the effect that they may have on moody operations or the potential for increased exposure to liability. exposure to litigation related to moody rating opinions moody has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities as part of ongoing investigations following the credit crisis, and is responding to those inquiries. in addition, moody faces a greater amount of litigation than has historically been the case from parties claiming damages relating to ratings actions, as well as other related business practices. due to the difficult economic times and turbulent markets over the last several years, the market value of credit-dependent instruments has declined and defaults have increased, significantly increasing the number of legal proceedings, including investigations, moody is currently facing. these proceedings impose additional expenses on the company, which may increase over time as these matters progress procedurally, require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues, and, given the number of these proceedings and significant amount of damages that may be sought, present a greater risk that moody may be subject to fines, penalties or damages if moody is deemed to have violated any laws or regulations. in jurisdictions outside the u.s., these types of proceedings may increase or become more costly because foreign jurisdictions may not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that currently exist in the u.s. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as provided by the first amendment), may adopt legislation potentially imposing liability under specified circumstances and loosening pleading requirements and may pose a greater risk of criminal rather than civil penalties. these risks often are and may continue to be difficult to assess or quantify. moody may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. furthermore, to the extent that moody is unable to achieve dismissals from the various litigation at an early stage and matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs to be incurred by moody could increase substantially, regardless of the ultimate outcome. in addition, as discussed above, the financial reform act revised pleading and liability standards and other provisions potentially subjecting cras to increased liability under securities law claims. the financial reform act and regulations that will be adopted as a result of it may result in a material increase in the number of legal proceedings, especially as related to future ratings, and, together with judicial decisions under the financial reform act and under pre-existing legal standards, may increase the potential legal exposure of cras. changes in liability standards, as well as pleading standards, applicable in markets outside the u.s., such as those recently proposed by the european commission, also could create a greater potential for liability from operating in such markets. the company believes that adoption of these provisions could negatively impact credit markets, including causing cras to cease to issue ratings on certain securities or issuers, increasing the cost of ratings, delaying issuances of ratings and restricting the public availability of ratings, which changes could materially negatively impact the company business and prospects. it is possible that implementing changes to the company operations to address the changed pleading and liability standards may result in lower revenues and/or increased expenses that the company may not be able to recoup or offset, which could be material, and the company may not be successful in avoiding or mitigating the impact of the heightened or changed pleading and liability standards. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets approximately 58% of mis revenue for 2011 was transaction-based, compared to 57% of mis revenue in 2010 and 50% of mis revenue in 2009. revenue from rating transactions is dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. accordingly, any conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which mis provides ratings services and thereby have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. a significant disruption in world financial markets, particularly in the credit markets, began in mid-2007, when many credit markets experienced a severe lack of liquidity. this disruption continues to adversely affect our business as the markets struggle to recover. credit market disruptions, including those resulting from the sovereign debt crisis in europe, together with the persistent economic slowdown have negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. future debt issuances could be negatively affected by a sharp increase in long-term interest rates or factors which cause instability or volatility in the global capital markets, such as the recent credit market disruptions resulting from the sovereign debt crises in certain european countries. new debt issuances in the structured finance market are likely to continue to be significantly below peak levels reached in the middle of the past decade. consequently, the company has experienced a reduction in the overall demand for rating newly issued debt securities. changes in the markets for such securities and in the role and regulation of rating agencies may materially adversely affect the company even if the volume of securities issuances in all sectors recovers to or exceeds those experienced prior to 2007. the timing, nature, extent and sustainability of any recovery in the credit and other financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that overall market conditions will improve in the future, or that moody financial results will not continue to be moody 2011 10-k 19 table of contents adversely affected. a sustained period of market decline or weakness, especially if it relates to credit sensitive securities, for which there was historically a high level of demand for ratings, could have a material adverse effect on moody business and financial results. initiatives that the company has undertaken to reduce costs may not be sufficient and further cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the near term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, the cost-reduction initiatives undertaken to date could result in strains in the company operations if the credit markets and demand for ratings in all sectors return to levels that prevailed prior to mid-2007 or otherwise unexpectedly increase. other factors that could further reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities include increases in interest rates or credit spreads, continued volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant regulatory, political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit including financial institutions and government sources, defaults of significant issuers and other unfavorable market and economic conditions. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional credit rating agencies, such as mis. changing regulatory considerations and other market developments could negatively affect the demand for credit ratings even if debt security issuances and activities increase. as such, no assurance can be given as to the amount of revenues that may be derived therefrom. legal, economic and regulatory risks of operating in foreign jurisdictions moody maintains offices outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from sources outside the u.s. in addition to the regulatory risks discussed above, operations in different countries expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into u.s. dollars and currency fluctuations; the costs of repatriating cash held by entities outside the u.s., u.s. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; different legal or civil liability standards, political and economic instability; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; and potentially adverse tax consequences. as moody derives a significant portion of its revenue from sources outside the u.s., moody business also is subject to changes in the economic condition of the various economies outside the u.s. in which it operates. for example, economic developments in the european zone, which is presently experiencing a degree of economic uncertainty, or in southeast asia could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within the particular area, which, in turn, could affect moody business. in its non-u.s. operations, moody is subject to regulations applicable under the office of foreign asset control, the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials (which may include companies affiliated with foreign governments) for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. other countries in which moody operates, such as the united kingdom, have also enacted similar laws. violations of the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the sec and u.s. department of justice and their counterparts outside the u.s. have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the fcpa and similar laws, increasing the likelihood that a company will face costly investigations or penalties for actual or alleged violations of these laws. internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that the company has implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting its employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing its policies and the law. if moody employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing its international operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in damage to our reputation as well as civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. any determination that the company has violated the fcpa or other similar laws could have a material adverse effect on moody financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. in addition to competition from other rating agencies that operate in a number of international jurisdictions and specialized companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as a.m. best company, inc., with respect to the insurance industry), in many foreign countries mis competes with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence and greater familiarity or a longer operating history in those markets. these local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support from local governments or other institutions that mis does not receive, putting mis at a competitive disadvantage. increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers in the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, bankruptcies and consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of customers. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with 20 moody 2011 10-k table of contents its current and future competitors, moody may lose market share. in addition, one of the central goals of the reform act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. the formation of additional nrsros may increase pricing, as well as other competitive pressures. exposure to reputational and credibility concerns moody reputation is one of the key bases on which the company competes. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, has suffered a loss in credibility in the course of the credit crisis, or, in the future, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be adversely affected. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, adverse publicity as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities, a major compliance failure, publicity associated with ongoing litigation and new laws and regulations and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies. these concerns may be disclosed or highlighted in the course of various investigations or lawsuits that have been or may be instituted, through legislative or regulatory hearings or special studies that are mandated by legislation, or through journalists or others attempting to chronicle or report on the recent credit crisis. operational errors, whether by moody or a moody competitor, could harm the reputation of the credit rating industry and adversely affect moody business. introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies the markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. the ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by moody s. customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and its growth prospects. in addition, moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. significant amount of intangible assets moody has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet consisting of $642.9 million of goodwill and $253.6 million of amortizable intangible assets. approximately 99% of these intangibles reside in the ma business and are allocated to the five reporting units within ma: rd&amp;a; rms; training, csi, and copal. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in one or all of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge which would reduce net income in the period the impairment is recorded. impairment of goodwill or intangibles would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. an impairment would be recorded if the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group which holds goodwill or any intangible assets is less than the carrying amount of its net assets. a significant factor in the determination of the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group is its projected cash flows. future cash flows of ma are dependent on a variety of factors such as, but not limited to, general economic growth, capital market activity, product innovation, pricing, market share and competition. changes in these factors or in the conduct of moody operations in response to such factors could lead to reduced cash flows resulting in an asset impairment charge. possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures moody success depends in part upon recruiting, retaining and motivating highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering higher compensation than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. the trading price of moody stock could be affected by third party actions ownership of moody stock is highly concentrated with a majority of shares held by a few institutional stockholders. due to this concentrated stockholder base, the trading price of moody stock could be affected considerably by actions of significant stockholders to increase or decrease their positions in moody stock. moody 2011 10-k 21 table of contents moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail moody ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located, including having its headquarters in new york city and offices in major cities worldwide. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications or other services used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of major operating systems may not be successful. the company, in a number of instances, relies on third party providers to provide essential services. while the company believes that such third parties are reliable, the company, obviously, has less control over the performance of such providers. the company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, their ability to service and interact with moody clients and customers may suffer. the company operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. the business relies upon and processes a great deal of data through its systems, the security and quality of which must be maintained in order for the business units to perform. protective measures that moody takes may be circumvented or may not be sufficient to guard its computer systems, software and networks from unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize moody or its clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, its computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the company s, its clients , its counterparties or third parties operations. moody may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and the company may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by moody s. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60risk factors 15-20 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial conditions, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this form 10-k. moody 2012 10-k 15 table of contents u.s. laws and regulations affecting the credit rating industry are rapidly evolving and may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business moody operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. these regulations are complex, rapidly evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. some of the more prominent developments are discussed below or under the section entitled regulation in part 1, item 1 of this form 10-k. these new laws and regulations may cause or result in: increased competition in the credit rating business; alternatives to credit ratings; restrictions on the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings; increased regulatory oversight of the credit markets and credit rating agency operations; limits on the number of years a credit rating agency can rate the securities of a particular issuer; or changes in the pricing of credit ratings. two key pieces of legislation affecting these changes are the reform act and the financial reform act. under the reform act, which seeks to encourage increased competition among rating agencies, the sec has direct jurisdiction over credit rating agencies that seek nrsro status and has the authority to inspect their operations. the financial reform act authorizes the adoption of enhanced oversight standards for credit rating agencies, and also provides for new pleading standards and enhanced liability. as a result, credit rating agencies may be subject to a greater number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and may increase the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by moody s. these new laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which moody may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be greater uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of new laws and regulations. as new laws and regulations are adopted, the company may be required to incur significant expenses in order to ensure compliance and mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be increased uncertainty over and exposure to liability. given the comparatively recent adoption and the number of additional reforms proposed, it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of these new and proposed legislative and regulatory requirements on moody business and its customers businesses. these developments may affect mis communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which mis ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which mis or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for mis ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for rating agencies. further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may affect moody stock price. although these recent and pending legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on moody operations, profitability, competitiveness, demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. financial reforms outside the u.s. affecting the credit rating industry may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. in particular, the eu has been active in adopting a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the eu, and has sought to introduce a common eu regulatory approach to oversight of credit rating agencies. the eu has established conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules on the organization and conduct of credit rating agencies including restrictions on certain activities deemed to create a conflict of interest and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. esma, which became fully operational in july 2011, now has direct supervisory authority for credit rating agencies in the eu. in january 2013, the european parliament adopted amendments to its existing cra regulations (generally referred to as cra3). a few additional steps remain in the legislative process before cra3 is finalized. it is expected that cra3 will become effective in the second half of 2013. as adopted, the revised regulations, among other things, would: (i) impose various additional procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers; (ii) require member states to adopt laws imposing liability on cras for an intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by the applicable regulations; (iii) impose mandatory rotation requirements on cras hired by issuers of securities for ratings on resecuritizations, which may limit the number of years a cra can issue ratings for such securities of a particular issuer; (iv) impose restrictions on credit rating agencies or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed; and (v) impose additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services. 16 moody 2012 10-k table of contents eu financial reforms could have a significant negative effect on moody operations and profitability, ability to compete or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in particular, exposure to increased liability under future eu regulation may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact moody results of operations. in addition, compliance with the amended eu regulations may increase costs of operations. further, moody believes there is still potential for additional rulemaking by the eu and other jurisdictions that can significantly impact operations or the markets for moody products and services, such as regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, establishment of criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings. moody cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, however, the effect that they have on moody business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. financial reforms in the eu and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on the moody business, operating results and financial conditions. exposure to litigation related to moody rating opinions moody faces exposure to litigation related to its ratings actions, as well as other business practices. as a result of difficult economic times and turbulent markets over the last several years, the market value of credit-dependent instruments has declined and defaults have increased. this has led to a significant increase in the number of legal proceedings that moody is facing, including class actions and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events in the u.s. subprime residential mortgage sector and the credit markets more broadly over the last several years. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the u.s. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. moody may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. furthermore, to the extent that moody is unable to achieve dismissals from the various litigation at an early stage and matters proceed to trial, as are two siv related litigations filed against the subsidiaries of moody in the southern district of new york, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by moody increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. see contingencies for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that we currently face. due to the number of these proceedings and significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that moody will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. legal, economic and regulatory risks of operating in foreign jurisdictions moody conducts operations in various countries outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the company operates may have an impact on business. for example, economic uncertainty in the eurozone or in southeast asia could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. in addition, operations abroad expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into u.s. dollars; exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar; the costs of repatriating cash held by entities outside the u.s.; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; different legal or civil liability standards; uncertain and evolving laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries; economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; and potentially adverse tax consequences. moody 2012 10-k 17 table of contents additionally, moody is subject to complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. although the company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such policies and the law. any determination that the company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on moody financial conditions. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on moody reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial conditions. moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail moody ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located, including its headquarters in new york city and offices in major cities worldwide. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of major operating systems may not be successful. the company, in a number of instances, relies on third party providers to provide essential services. while the company believes that such third parties are reliable, the company has less control over the performance of such providers. the company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, their ability to service and interact with moody clients and customers may suffer. a disruption to moody operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial conditions. risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information moody prominence in the global marketplace makes it more likely that the company will be targeted for cyber-attacks and other cybersecurity risks. in particular, the company may be targeted in response to its ratings of sovereign debt. the company operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. protective measures that moody takes may be circumvented or insufficient and the company networks and those of third party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks including unauthorized access to proprietary information and sensitive or confidential information, denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses and other security concerns, such as attacks from cyber criminals. confidential and other information may be disclosed to an unauthorized third party as a result of inappropriate access to information technology systems and assets, or may be insufficiently protected when transferred to an authorized recipient. a successful cyber-attack could cause interruptions or malfunctions and compromise the confidentiality and integrity of the company web sites, applications or data. breaches of security could also expose the company, its customers and others to risks of loss. such attacks could have regulatory and reputational consequences, as well as affect client relationships. while we continue to focus on mitigating our vulnerability to cyber risks and protect our infrastructure against security breaches, security measures against such attacks are costly and may prove inadequate. as a result of such attacks, the company may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. a successful cyber-attack or other cybersecurity concern may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial conditions. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets moody business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the world financial markets. credit market disruptions together with the persistent economic slowdown and uncertainty have negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. although access to credit markets has improved in the u.s., a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions, uncertainty regarding the u.s. debt ceiling or a worsening of the sovereign debt crisis in europe is likely to have an adverse impact on the business. future debt issuances could be negatively affected by a sharp increase in long-term interest rates or factors which cause instability or volatility in the global capital markets, such as significant regulatory, political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit including financial institutions and government sources and defaults of significant issuers. changes in the markets for such securities and in the role and regulation of rating agencies may materially adversely affect the company. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional credit rating agencies, such as mis. a majority of mis revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. accordingly, any market volatility or conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers will- 18 moody 2012 10-k table of contents ingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which mis provides ratings services and thereby have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. as such, no assurance can be given as to the amount of revenues that may be derived therefrom. the timing, nature, extent and sustainability of any recovery in the credit and other financial markets remains uncertain, and a prolonged period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on the business. moody initiatives to reduce costs may not be sufficient and further cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the near term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, the cost-reduction initiatives undertaken to date could make it difficult for the company to rapidly expand operations to accommodate any unexpected increase in the credit markets and demand for ratings. volatility in the financial markets, to include changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial conditions. increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers there is intense price competition in the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets. competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, bankruptcies and consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of customers. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, it may lose market share if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors. in addition, one of the central goals of the reform act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. the formation of additional nrsros may increase pricing, as well as other competitive pressures. if moody is unable to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its services and products, its business, operating results and financial condition may experience a material adverse effect. exposure to reputational and credibility concerns moody reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be significantly impacted. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including adverse publicity as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities. operational errors, whether by moody or a moody competitor, could also harm the reputation of the credit rating industry. damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on moody business, operating results and financial condition. introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies the markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. the ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. our competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, as well as smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by moody s. customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and its growth prospects. in addition, moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. if moody is unable to compete successfully, there may be a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. significant amount of intangible assets at december 31, 2012, moody had $637.1 million of goodwill and $226.5 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet. approximately 99% of these intangibles reside in the ma business and are allocated to the four reporting units within ma: rd&amp;a; ers; financial services training and certifications, and copal. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists is difficult as a result of increased uncertainty and current market dynamics, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. an asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition. during the fourth quarter of 2012, the company recognized a $12.2 million goodwill impairment charge related to its fstc reporting unit, which is more fully moody 2012 10-k 19 table of contents described in the critical accounting estimates section of item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this form 10k. possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures moody success depends in part upon recruiting, retaining and motivating highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. we are highly dependent on the continued services of raymond w. mcdaniel, jr., our president and chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees. the loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition. moody acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results moody has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow the company. such transactions present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. if such transactions are completed, they may not realize the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. for instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, the company may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business and such transactions may divert management focus from other business operations. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition. the trading price of moody stock could be affected by third party actions ownership of moody stock is highly concentrated with a majority of shares held by a few institutional stockholders. due to this concentrated stockholder base, the trading price of moody stock could be affected considerably by actions of significant stockholders to increase or decrease their positions in moody stock. as a result, the actions of these institutional stockholders could create high stock volatility. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 on page 46-47 of this annual report on form 10-k. moody 2012 10-k 61 table of contentsrisk factors 17-21 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. u.s. laws and regulations affecting the credit rating industry are rapidly evolving and may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business moody operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s., including the reform act and the financial reform act. these regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. see regulation in part 1, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. these laws and regulations: &raquo; seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business; &raquo; may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings; &raquo; restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings; &raquo; increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and cra operations; &raquo; limit the number of years a cra can rate the securities of a particular issuer; &raquo; provide for direct jurisdiction of the sec over cras that seek nrsro status, and grant authority to the sec to inspect the operations of cras; and &raquo; authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards, new pleading standards and enhanced liability for cras, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and aggregate legal defense costs. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which moody may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. the company may be required to incur significant expenses in order to ensure compliance and mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on moody business and its customers businesses, and they may affect mis communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which mis ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which mis or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for mis ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for rating agencies. further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may affect moody stock price. although these recent and pending legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on moody operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. financial reforms outside the u.s. affecting the credit rating industry may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. in particular, the eu has adopted a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the eu, and introduced a common eu regulatory approach to oversight of cras. the eu has established conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules on the organization and conduct of cras including restrictions on certain activities deemed to create a conflict of interest and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. esma has direct supervisory authority for cras in the eu. the amendments adopted by the european parliament to its existing cra regulations (generally referred to as cra3) became effective on june 20, 2013. as adopted, cra3, among other things, imposes: (i) various additional procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers; (ii) requirements that member states to adopt laws imposing liability on cras for an intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by the applicable regulations; (iii) mandatory rotation requirements on cras hired by issuers of securities for ratings on resecuritizations, which may limit the number of years a cra can issue ratings for such securities of a particular issuer; (iv) restrictions on cras or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed; (v) additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services. moody 2013 10k 17 table of contents eu financial reforms could have a significant negative effect on moody operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in particular, exposure to increased liability under the eu regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact moody results of operations. in addition, compliance with the amended eu regulations may increase costs of operations. further, moody believes there is still potential for additional rulemaking by the eu and other jurisdictions that can significantly impact operations or the markets for moody products and services, such as regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings. moody cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on moody business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. financial reforms in the eu and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the company faces exposure to litigation related to rating opinions moody faces exposure to litigation related to mis ratings actions, as well as other business practices. as a result of difficult economic times and turbulent markets in recent years, the market value of credit-dependent instruments has declined and defaults have increased. this development has led to a significant increase in the number of legal proceedings that moody is facing, including class actions and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events in the u.s. subprime residential mortgage sector and the credit markets more broadly. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the u.s. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. moody may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. furthermore, to the extent that moody is unable to achieve dismissals at an early stage and litigation matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by moody increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. see contingencies for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that the company currently faces. due to the number of these proceedings and the significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that moody will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to legal, economic and regulatory risks of operating in foreign jurisdictions moody conducts operations in various countries outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the company operates may have an impact on the company business. for example, economic uncertainty in the eurozone or elsewhere could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. in addition, operations abroad expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: &raquo; restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into usd; &raquo; exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and usd; &raquo; the costs of repatriating cash held by entities outside the u.s.; &raquo; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; &raquo; differing legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards; &raquo; uncertain and evolving laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries; &raquo; economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; &raquo; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; &raquo; competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions; &raquo; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; &raquo; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; &raquo; differing accounting principles and standards; &raquo; difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and &raquo; potentially adverse tax consequences. 18 moody 2013 10k table of contents additionally, moody is subject to complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. although the company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that the company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on moody financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on moody reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition. moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail moody ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located, including new york city, the location of moody headquarters, and major cities worldwide in which moody has offices. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of its major operating systems may not be successful. the company relies on third-party providers to provide certain essential services. while the company believes that such providers are reliable, the company has limited control over the performance of such providers. to the extent any of the company third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fail to adequately expand its services to meet the company needs and the needs of the company customers, the company could experience lower revenues and higher costs. the company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons ability to service and interact with moody clients and customers may suffer. we cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to moody operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information the company operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive and other types of information in the company computer systems and networks and those of its third party vendors. the cyber risks we face range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target the company because of its prominence in the global marketplace, or due to its ratings of sovereign debt. breaches of our or our vendors technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, computer viruses or malware, employee error, malfeasance, physical breaches or other actions, may cause material interruptions or malfunctions in the company or such vendors web sites, applications or data processing, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information regarding the company or our business or customers. measures that moody takes to avoid or mitigate material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become obsolete. any material incidents could cause the company to experience reputational harm, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results or financial condition. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business moody business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the u.s. and world financial markets. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional cras, such as mis. a majority of moody credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. accordingly, any market volatility or conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which moody provides ratings services and thereby have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. therefore, no assurance can be given as to the amount of revenues that may be derived from moody ratings services. credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. economic and government factors such as a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions, uncertainty regarding the u.s. debt ceiling and a worsening of the sovereign debt crisis in europe may have an adverse impact on the company business. future debt issuances could be negatively affected by a sharp increase in long-term moody 2013 10k 19 table of contents interest rates or factors which cause instability or volatility in the global capital markets, such as significant regulatory, political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit, including financial institutions and government sources, and defaults of significant issuers. changes in the markets for such securities and in the role and regulation of rating agencies may materially and adversely affect the company. the timing, nature, extent and sustainability of any recovery in the credit and other financial markets is uncertain, and a prolonged period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on the business. moody initiatives to reduce costs may not be sufficient and further cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, the cost-reduction initiatives undertaken to date could make it difficult for the company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the credit markets and the resulting demand for ratings. volatility in the financial markets, including changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition. the company faces increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers there is intense price competition in the credit rating, research, credit risk management markets, outsourced research and analytical services and financial training and certification services. competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and services, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, bankruptcies, consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of competitors. tepid economic growth is also intensifying the competitive pressures as to pricing. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and services, it may lose market share if its pricing is not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors. in addition, the reform act was designed to encourage competition among rating agencies. the formation of additional nrsros may increase pricing, as well as other competitive, pressures. any inability of moody to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its products and services could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to reputation and credibility concerns moody reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be significantly impacted. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities. operational errors, whether by moody or a moody competitor, could also harm the reputation of the company or the credit rating industry. damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business the markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, outsourced research and analytical services and financial training and certification services are highly competitive. the ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. moody competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, and smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by moody s. customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and services and its growth prospects. in addition, the increased availability in recent years of free or relatively inexpensive internet information may reduce the demand for moody products and services. moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by moody failure to make necessary or optimal capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements and the inability of its information technologies to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. any inability of moody to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company has a significant amount of intangible assets at december 31, 2013, moody had $665.2 million of goodwill and $221.6 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet. approximately 99% of these intangibles reside in the ma business and are allocated to the four reporting units within ma: rd&amp;a; ers; financial services training and certifications; and copal amba. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. goodwill 20 moody 2013 10k table of contents and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be difficult as a result of increased uncertainty and current market dynamics, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. in addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. an asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures may negatively impact the company moody success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. as greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at public companies, in the future, moody may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. there is a risk that even if the company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed. moody is highly dependent on the continued services of raymond w. mcdaniel, jr., the president and chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees. the loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and moody inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. moody acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results moody has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen its business and grow the company. such transactions present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect moody ability to complete such transactions. if moody is unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. if such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. for instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, the company may assume unintended liabilities, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, the company may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business and such transactions may divert management focus from other business operations. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the trading price of moody stock could be affected by third party actions ownership of moody stock is highly concentrated with a significant portion of shares held by a few institutional stockholders. due to this concentrated stockholder base, the trading price of moody stock could be affected considerably by actions of significant stockholders to increase or decrease their positions in moody stock. as a result, the actions of these institutional stockholders could create high stock volatility. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 on page 46-47 of this annual report on form 10-k. moody 2013 10k 59 table of contentsrisk factors 17-22 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. u.s. laws and regulations affecting the credit rating industry are rapidly evolving and may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business moody operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s., including the reform act and the financial reform act. these regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. see regulation in part 1, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. these laws and regulations: &raquo; seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business; &raquo; may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings; &raquo; restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings; &raquo; increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and cra operations; &raquo; provide for direct jurisdiction of the sec over cras that seek nrsro status, and grant authority to the sec to inspect the operations of cras; and &raquo; authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards and new pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and aggregate legal defense costs. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking or court rulings, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which moody may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. the company may be required to incur significant expenses in order to ensure compliance and mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on moody business and its customers businesses, and they may affect mis communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which mis ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which mis or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for mis ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for rating agencies. further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may affect moody stock price. although these recent and pending legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on moody operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. financial reforms outside the u.s. affecting the credit rating industry may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. in particular, the eu has adopted a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the eu, and introduced a common eu regulatory approach to oversight of cras. the eu has established conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules on the organization and conduct of cras including restrictions on certain activities deemed to create a conflict of interest and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. esma has direct supervisory authority for cras in the eu. mis is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection. applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of cras hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, restrictions on cras or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed, and additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services. on january 6, 2015, two additional rules (generally referred to as regulatory technical standards or rtss ) of direct relevance to the cra industry were published in the official journal of the european union: (i) cras reporting requirements to esma on their fees; and moody 2014 10k 17 table of contents (ii) the types of information that cras are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by esma (the european ratings platform). separately, cra3 also requires that esma and / or the european commission produce several reports on the industry structure and the use of ratings. these reports are expected to be published by year end 2015. eu financial reforms could have a significant negative effect on moody operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in particular, exposure to increased liability under the eu regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact moody results of operations. in addition, compliance with the amended eu regulations may increase costs of operations. further, moody believes there is still potential for additional rulemaking by the eu and other jurisdictions that can significantly impact operations or the markets for moody products and services, such as regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings. moody cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on moody business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. financial reforms in the eu and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the company faces exposure to litigation related to rating opinions and other business practices moody faces exposure to litigation related to mis ratings actions, as well as other business practices. as a result of difficult economic times and turbulent markets in recent years, the market value of credit-dependent instruments has declined and defaults have increased. this development has led to a significant increase in the number of legal proceedings that moody is facing, including class actions and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events in the u.s. subprime residential mortgage sector and the credit markets more broadly. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the u.s. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. moody may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. furthermore, to the extent that moody is unable to achieve dismissals at an early stage and litigation matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by moody increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that the company currently faces. due to the number of these proceedings and the significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that moody will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to legal, economic and regulatory risks of operating in multiple jurisdictions moody conducts operations in various countries outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the company operates may have an impact on the company business. for example, economic uncertainty in the eurozone or elsewhere could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. in addition, operations abroad expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: &raquo; restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into usd; &raquo; exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and usd; &raquo; the costs of repatriating cash held by entities outside the u.s.; &raquo; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; &raquo; differing legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards; &raquo; current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on cras hired by issuers of securities; &raquo; uncertain and evolving laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries; &raquo; economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; &raquo; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; &raquo; competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions; 18 moody 2014 10k table of contents &raquo; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; &raquo; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; &raquo; differing accounting principles and standards; &raquo; difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and &raquo; potentially adverse tax consequences. additionally, moody is subject to complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. although the company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that the company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on moody financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on moody reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition. moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail moody ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located, including new york city, the location of moody headquarters, major cities worldwide in which moody has offices, and locations in china used for data and development work. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure, including the company electronic delivery systems, data center facilities and the internet, used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of its major operating systems may not be successful. the company relies on third-party providers to provide certain essential services. while the company believes that such providers are reliable, the company has limited control over the performance of such providers. to the extent any of the company third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fail to adequately expand its services to meet the company needs and the needs of the company customers, the company could experience lower revenues and higher costs. the company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons ability to service and interact with moody clients and customers may suffer. the company cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from the company failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to moody operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information the company operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to its business operations and confidential and sensitive information about its clients in the company computer systems and networks and those of its third party vendors. the cyber risks the company faces range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target the company because of its prominence in the global marketplace, or due to its ratings of sovereign debt. breaches of moody or moody vendors technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, computer viruses or malware, employee error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions, may result in manipulation or corruption of sensitive data, material interruptions or malfunctions in the company or such vendors web sites, applications, data processing, or disruption of other business operations, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information held by the company (including information about moody business or customers), as well as sensitive personally identifiable information ( pii ), the disclosure of which could lead to identity theft. measures that moody takes to avoid or mitigate material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become obsolete. any material breaches of cybersecurity could cause the company to experience reputational harm, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard the company clients information or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results or financial condition. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business moody business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the u.s. and world financial markets. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional moody 2014 10k 19 table of contents parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional cras, such as mis. a majority of moody credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. accordingly, any market volatility or conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which moody provides ratings services and thereby have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. therefore, no assurance can be given as to the amount of revenues that may be derived from moody ratings services. credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. economic and government factors such as a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions and a worsening of the sovereign debt crisis in europe may have an adverse impact on the company business. future debt issuances could be negatively affected by a sharp increase in long-term interest rates or factors which cause instability or volatility in the global capital markets, such as significant regulatory, political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit, including financial institutions and government sources, and defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors. changes in the markets for such securities and in the role and regulation of rating agencies may materially and adversely affect the company. moody initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business may not be sufficient and cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, cost-reduction initiatives, including those undertaken to date, could make it difficult for the company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. volatility in the financial markets, including changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition. the company faces increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers there is price competition in the credit rating, research, credit risk management markets, outsourced research and analytical services and financial training and certification services. competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and services, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of competitors and result in reductions in the size of the company customer base. tepid economic growth is also intensifying the competitive pressures as to pricing. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and services, it may lose market share if its pricing is not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors. in addition, the reform act was designed to encourage competition among rating agencies. the formation of additional nrsros may increase pricing and competitive pressures. any inability of moody to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its products and services could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to reputation and credibility concerns moody reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be significantly impacted. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities. operational errors, whether by moody or a moody competitor, could also harm the reputation of the company or the credit rating industry. damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business the markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, outsourced research and analytical services and financial training and certification services are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. the ability to develop and successfully launch and maintain innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. moody competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, and smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may position, price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by moody s. moody also competes indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers; these indirect competitors could choose to 20 moody 2014 10k table of contents compete directly with us in the future. in addition, customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and services and its growth prospects. further, the increased availability in recent years of free or relatively inexpensive internet information may reduce the demand for moody products and services. moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by moody failure to make necessary or optimal capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements and the inability of its information technologies to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. any inability of moody to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company has a significant amount of intangible assets at december 31, 2014, moody had $1,021.1 million of goodwill and $345.5 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet. approximately 71% of these intangibles reside in the ma business and are allocated to the four reporting units within ma: rd&amp;a; ers; financial services training and certifications; and copal amba. the remaining 29% of these intangibles reside in mis and primarily relate to icra. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be difficult as a result of increased uncertainty and current market dynamics, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. in addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. an asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures may negatively impact the company moody success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. as greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at public companies, in the future, moody may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. there is a risk that even if the company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed. moody is highly dependent on the continued services of raymond w. mcdaniel, jr., the president and chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees. the loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and moody inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. moody acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results moody has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen its business and grow the company. such transactions present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect moody ability to complete such transactions. if moody is unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. if such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth, synergies and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including unanticipated challenges regarding integration of operations, technologies and new employees; the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by the company prior to closing a transaction; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; diverting management focus from other business operations; and failing to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the trading price of moody stock could be affected by third party actions ownership of moody stock is highly concentrated with a significant portion of shares held by a few institutional stockholders. due to this concentrated stockholder base, the trading price of moody stock could be affected considerably by actions of significant moody 2014 10k 21 table of contents stockholders to increase or decrease their positions in moody stock. as a result, the actions of these institutional stockholders could create high stock volatility. the company compliance and risk management programs might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect the company reputation, financial condition and operating results. moody operates in a number of countries, and as a result the company is required to comply with numerous international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. the company ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems. moody policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the company risks may not be fully effective, and moody employees [or agents] may engage in misconduct, fraud or other errors. it is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. if moody employees violate its policies or if the company risk management methods are not effective, the company could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer harm to the company reputation, financial condition and operating results. legal protections for the company intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or available to protect the company competitive advantages. moody considers many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. failure to protect the company intellectual property adequately could harm its reputation and affect the company ability to compete effectively. in addition, the company operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. on january 6, 2015, a rule with direct relevance to the cra industry was published in the official journal of the european union regarding the types of information that cras are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by esma (the european ratings platform). this rule directly relates to the company intellectual property as it would require that the company provide proprietary information at no cost that the company currently sells, which could result in lost revenue. additionally, despite the company efforts to protect its intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may try to obtain and use technology or other information that the company regards as proprietary. even if moody attempts to protect its intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the company will be successful. the company is dependent on the use of third-party software, data, hosted solutions, data centers, and network infrastructure ( together, third party technology ) , and any reduction in third-party product quality or service offerings, could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition or results of operations. moody relies on third party technology in connection with its product development and offerings. the company depends on the ability of third party technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third party technology moody uses may become obsolete, incompatible with future versions of the company products, unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and moody business could be adversely affected if the company is unable to timely or effectively replace such third party technology. the company also monitors its use of third party technology to comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. despite the company efforts, the company cannot assure that such third parties will permit moody use in the future, resulting in increased third party technology acquisition costs and loss of rights. in addition, the company operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for third party technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third party technology are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also moody competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 on page 47 of this annual report on form 10-k. moody 2014 10k 55 table of contentsrisk factors 17-23 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. u.s. laws and regulations affecting the credit rating industry are rapidly evolving and may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business moody operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s., including the reform act and the financial reform act. these regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. see regulation in part 1, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. these laws and regulations: &raquo; seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business; &raquo; may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings; &raquo; restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings; &raquo; increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and cra operations; &raquo; provide for direct jurisdiction of the sec over cras that seek nrsro status, and grant authority to the sec to inspect the operations of cras; and &raquo; authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards and new pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and aggregate legal defense costs. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking or court rulings, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which moody may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. the company may be required to incur significant expenses in order to ensure compliance and mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on moody business and its customers businesses. for example, new laws and regulations may affect mis communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which mis ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which mis or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for mis ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for rating agencies. further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may negatively affect moody stock price. although these recent and pending legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on moody operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. financial reforms outside the u.s. affecting the credit rating industry may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. in particular, the eu has adopted a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the eu, and introduced a common eu regulatory approach to oversight of cras. the eu has established conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules on the organization and conduct of cras including restrictions on certain activities deemed to create a conflict of interest and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. esma has direct supervisory authority for cras in the eu. mis is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection. applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of cras hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, restrictions on cras or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed, and additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services. moody 2015 10k 17 table of contents eu financial reforms could have a significant negative effect on moody operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in particular, exposure to increased liability under the eu regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact moody results of operations. in addition, compliance with the amended eu regulations may increase costs of operations. the eu and other jurisdictions are engaged in ongoing rulemaking that could significantly impact operations or the markets for moody products and services, including regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings. in january 2015, two additional rules (generally referred to as regulatory technical standards or rtss ) of direct relevance to the cra industry were published in the official journal of the european union: (i) cras reporting requirements to esma on their fees; and (ii) the types of information that cras are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by esma (the european ratings platform). separately, cra3 also requires that esma and / or the european commission produce several reports, which have not yet been completed, on the industry structure and the use of ratings. moody cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on moody business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. financial reforms in the eu and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the company faces exposure to litigation and government regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to rating opinions and other business practices moody faces exposure to litigation related to mis ratings actions, as well as other business practices and products. if the market value of credit-dependent instruments declines or defaults, whether as a result of difficult economic times, turbulent markets or otherwise, the number of investigations and legal proceedings that moody faces could increase significantly. parties who invest in securities rated by mis may pursue claims against mis or moody for losses they face in their portfolios. we have faced numerous class action lawsuits and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events linked to the u.s. subprime residential mortgage sector and broader deterioration in the credit markets during the recent financial crisis. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues, and any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the u.s. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. moody may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. furthermore, to the extent that moody is unable to achieve dismissals at an early stage and litigation matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by moody increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that the company currently faces. due to the number of these proceedings and the significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that moody will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to legal, economic and regulatory risks of operating in multiple jurisdictions moody conducts operations in various countries outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the company operates may have an impact on the company business. for example, economic uncertainty in the eurozone or elsewhere could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. in addition, operations abroad expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: &raquo; exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and usd; &raquo; restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into usd and the costs, including the tax impact, of repatriating cash held by entities outside the u.s.; &raquo; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; &raquo; differing legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards; &raquo; current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on cras hired by issuers of securities; &raquo; uncertain and evolving laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries; &raquo; economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; &raquo; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; 18 moody 2015 10k table of contents &raquo; competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions; &raquo; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; &raquo; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; &raquo; differing accounting principles and standards; &raquo; difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and &raquo; potentially adverse tax consequences. additionally, moody is subject to complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, the u.k. bribery act 2010 and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. although the company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that the company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on moody reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition. moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail moody ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located, including new york city, the location of moody headquarters, major cities worldwide in which moody has offices, and locations in china used for data and development work. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure, including the company electronic delivery systems, data center facilities and the internet, used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business, whether due to human error, hardware failure, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of its major operating systems may not be successful. the company relies on third-party providers to provide certain essential services. while the company believes that such providers are reliable, the company has limited control over the performance of such providers. to the extent any of the company third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fail to adequately expand its services to meet the company needs and the needs of the company customers, the company could experience lower revenues and higher costs. the company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons ability to service and interact with moody clients and customers may suffer. the company cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from the company failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to moody operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information the company operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to its business operations and confidential and sensitive information about its clients in the company computer systems and networks and those of its third party vendors. the cyber risks the company faces range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target the company because of its prominence in the global marketplace, or due to its ratings of sovereign debt. breaches of moody or moody vendors technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, computer viruses or malware, employee error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions, may result in manipulation or corruption of sensitive data, material interruptions or malfunctions in the company or such vendors web sites, applications, data processing, or disruption of other business operations, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information held by the company (including information about moody business or customers), as well as sensitive personally identifiable information ( pii ), the disclosure of which could lead to identity theft. measures that moody takes to avoid or mitigate material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. any material breaches of cybersecurity could cause the company to experience reputational harm, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard the company clients information or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results or financial condition. moody 2015 10k 19 table of contents changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business moody business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the u.s. and world financial markets. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional cras, such as mis. a majority of moody credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. conditions that reduce issuers ability or willingness to issue debt securities, such as market volatility, declining growth, currency devaluations or other adverse economic trends, reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which moody provides ratings services and thereby adversely affect the fees we earn in our ratings business. economic and government factors such as a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions and a worsening of the sovereign debt crisis in europe may have an adverse impact on the company business. future debt issuances also could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, widening credit spreads, regulatory and political developments, growth in the use of alternative sources of credit, and defaults by significant issuers. declines or other changes in the markets for debt securities may materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results and financial condition. moody initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business may not be sufficient and cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, cost-reduction initiatives, including those undertaken to date, could make it difficult for the company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. volatility in the financial markets, including changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition, which the company may not be able to successfully offset with cost reductions. the company faces increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers there is price competition in the credit rating, research, credit risk management markets, outsourced research and analytical services and financial training and certification services. moody faces competition from other cras and from investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions in research, as well as from in-house research operations. competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and services, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, a challenging business environment and consolidation among customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of competitors and reduce the company customer base. weak economic growth is also intensifying competitive pricing pressures and can result in customers use of free or lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and services, it may lose market share if its pricing is not sufficiently competitive. in addition, the reform act was designed to encourage competition among rating agencies. the formation of additional nrsros may increase pricing and competitive pressures. furthermore, in some of the countries in which moody operates, governments may provide financial or other support to local rating agencies. any inability of moody to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its products and services could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to reputation and credibility concerns moody reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be significantly impacted. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities. operational errors, whether by moody or a moody competitor, could also harm the reputation of the company or the credit rating industry. damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business the markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, outsourced research and analytical services and financial training and certification services are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. the ability to develop and successfully launch and maintain innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. 20 moody 2015 10k table of contents moody competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, and smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may position, price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by moody s. moody also competes indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers; these indirect competitors could choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and services and its growth prospects. further, the increased availability in recent years of free or relatively inexpensive internet information may reduce the demand for moody products and services. moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by moody failure to make necessary or optimal capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements and the inability of its information technologies to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. any inability of moody to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company has a significant amount of intangible assets at december 31, 2015, moody had $976.3 million of goodwill and $299.1 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet. approximately 70% of these intangibles reside in the ma business and are allocated to the four reporting units within ma: rd&amp;a; ers; financial services training and certifications; and copal amba. the remaining 30% of these intangibles reside in mis and primarily relate to icra. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be especially difficult in periods of market or economic uncertainty and turmoil, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. in addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. an asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures may negatively impact the company moody success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing industries. as greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at public companies, in the future, moody may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. there is a risk that even if the company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed. moody is highly dependent on the continued services of raymond w. mcdaniel, jr., the president and chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees. the loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and moody inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. moody acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results moody has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen its business and grow the company. such transactions present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect moody ability to complete such transactions. if moody is unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. if such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth, synergies and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including unanticipated challenges regarding integration of operations, technologies and new employees; the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by the company prior to closing a transaction; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; diverting management focus from other business operations; and failing to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies. the moody 2015 10k 21 table of contents anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the company compliance and risk management programs might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect the company reputation, financial condition and operating results. moody operates in a number of countries, and as a result the company is required to comply with numerous international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. the company ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. moody policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the company risks may not be fully effective, and moody employees or agents may engage in misconduct, fraud or other errors. it is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. if moody employees violate its policies or if the company risk management methods are not effective, the company could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer harm to the company reputation, financial condition and operating results. legal protections for the company intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or available to protect the company competitive advantages. moody considers many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. failure to protect the company intellectual property adequately could harm its reputation and affect the company ability to compete effectively. in addition, the company operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. on january 6, 2015, a rule with direct relevance to the cra industry was published in the official journal of the european union regarding the types of information that cras are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by esma (the european ratings platform). this rule directly relates to the company intellectual property as it would require that the company provide proprietary information at no cost that the company currently sells, which could result in lost revenue. additionally, despite the company efforts to protect its intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may try to obtain and use technology or other information that the company regards as proprietary. it is also possible that moody competitors or other entities could obtain patents related to the types of products and services that moody offers, and attempt to require moody to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to modify or redesign the products or services to avoid infringing, or to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents in order to continue developing and marketing the products and services. even if moody attempts to assert or protect its intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the company will be successful. the company is dependent on the use of third-party software, data, hosted solutions, data centers, and network infrastructure ( together, third party technology ) , and any reduction in third-party product quality or service offerings, could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition or results of operations. moody relies on third party technology in connection with its product development and offerings. the company depends on the ability of third party technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third party technology moody uses may become obsolete, incompatible with future versions of the company products, unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and moody business could be adversely affected if the company is unable to timely or effectively replace such third party technology. the company also monitors its use of third party technology to comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. despite the company efforts, the company cannot assure that such third parties will permit moody use in the future, resulting in increased third party technology acquisition costs and loss of rights. in addition, the company operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for third party technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third party technology are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also moody competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in tax rates or tax rules could affect future results. as a global company, moody is subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. moody future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates or other factors, including by increased earnings in jurisdictions where we face higher tax rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. changes in the tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, policies and administrative practices, or changes to their interpretation or enforcement, including changes applicable to multinational corporations such as the base erosion profit shifting project being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development and the european union 22 moody 2015 10k table of contents state aid rulings, could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, moody is subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities, and we have experienced increased scrutiny as business has grown. moody regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, however, developments in an audit or litigation could materially and adversely affect us. although we believe our tax estimates and accruals are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the company aggregate cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.2 billion at december 31, 2015 consisted of approximately $1.5 billion located outside of the u.s. except as required under u.s. tax laws, moody does not provide for u.s. taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely in our foreign operations. if our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our u.s. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay u.s. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 on page 48 of this annual report on form 10-k. 56 moody 2015 10k table of contentsrisk factors 17-23 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. u.s. laws and regulations affecting the credit rating industry may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. moody operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s., including the reform act and the financial reform act. these regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. see regulation in part 1, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. these laws and regulations: &raquo; seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business; &raquo; may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings; &raquo; restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings; &raquo; increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and cra operations; &raquo; provide for direct jurisdiction of the sec over cras that seek nrsro status, and grant authority to the sec to inspect the operations of cras; and &raquo; authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards and new pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and aggregate legal defense costs. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking or court rulings, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which moody may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. the company may be required to incur significant expenses in order to ensure compliance and mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on moody business and its customers businesses. for example, new laws and regulations may affect mis communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which mis ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which mis or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for mis ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for rating agencies. further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may negatively affect moody stock price. although these recent and pending legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on moody operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. financial reforms outside the u.s. affecting the credit rating industry may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. in particular, the eu has adopted a common regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the eu. as a result, esma has direct supervisory authority for cras in the eu and has the power to take enforcement action against non-compliant cras, including through the issuance of public notices, withdrawal of registration and, in some cases, the imposition of fines. mis is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection in the eu. applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of cras hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, and restrictions on cras or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed. additional procedural and substantive requirements include conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules regarding the organization of cras, restrictions on activities deemed to create a conflict of interest, pricing regulations, and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. compliance with the eu regulations may increase our costs of operations and could have a significant negative effect on moody operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in addition, exposure to increased liability under the eu regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact moody results of operations. moody 2016 10k 17 table of contents the eu and other jurisdictions engage in rulemaking on an ongoing basis that could significantly impact operations or the markets for moody products and services, including regulations extending to products and services not currently regulated and regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, increasing the level of competition in the market for credit ratings, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings. moody cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on moody business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. financial reforms in the eu and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the company faces exposure to litigation and government regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to rating opinions and other business practices. moody faces exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to mis ratings actions, as well as other business practices and products. if the market value of credit-dependent instruments declines or defaults, whether as a result of difficult economic times, turbulent markets or otherwise, the number of investigations and legal proceedings that moody faces could increase significantly. parties who invest in securities rated by mis may pursue claims against mis or moody for losses they face in their portfolios. we have faced numerous class action lawsuits and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events linked to the u.s. subprime residential mortgage sector and broader deterioration in the credit markets during the recent financial crisis. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues, and any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the u.s. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. moody may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. furthermore, to the extent that moody is unable to achieve dismissals at an early stage and litigation matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by moody increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that the company currently faces. due to the number of these proceedings and the significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that moody will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to legal, economic, operational and regulatory risks of operating in multiple jurisdictions. moody conducts operations in various countries outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the company operates may have an impact on the company business. for example, economic uncertainty in the eurozone or elsewhere could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. in addition, operations abroad expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: &raquo; exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and usd; &raquo; restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into usd and the costs, including the tax impact, of repatriating cash held by entities outside the u.s.; &raquo; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; &raquo; differing and potentially conflicting legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards including as a result of the u.k. referendum vote whereby the u.k. citizens voted to withdraw from the eu, brexit; &raquo; current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on cras hired by issuers of securities; &raquo; uncertain and evolving laws and regulations, including those applicable to the financial services industries and to the protection of intellectual property; &raquo; economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; &raquo; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; &raquo; competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions; &raquo; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; &raquo; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; 18 moody 2016 10k table of contents &raquo; differing accounting principles and standards; &raquo; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; &raquo; difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and &raquo; potentially adverse tax consequences. additionally, moody is subject to complex u.s., foreign and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to its operations abroad, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. although the company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that the company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on moody reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition. moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. moody ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located, including new york city, the location of moody headquarters, major cities worldwide in which moody has offices, and locations in china used for certain moody analytics back office work. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure (whether or not controlled by the company), including the company electronic delivery systems, data center facilities, or the internet, used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business. many of the company products and services are delivered electronically and the company customers depend on the company ability to receive, store, process, transmit and otherwise rapidly handle very substantial quantities of data and transactions on computer-based networks. the company customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of the company telecommunications, data centers, networks and other electronic delivery systems, including its websites and connections to the internet. the company employees also depend on these systems for internal use. any significant failure, compromise, cyber-breach or interruption of the company infrastructure, whether due to human error, hardware failure or defect, natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise, may impair the company ability to deliver its products and services. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of its major operating systems may not be successful. the company relies on third-party providers to provide certain essential services. while the company believes that such providers are reliable, the company has limited control over the performance of such providers. to the extent any of the company third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fails to adequately expand its services to meet the company needs and the needs of the company customers, the company could experience lower revenues and higher costs. additionally, although the company maintains processes to prevent, detect and recover from a disruption, the company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons ability to service and interact with moody clients and customers may suffer. the company cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from the company failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to moody operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information. the company operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to its business operations and confidential and sensitive information about its clients and employees in the company computer systems and networks, and in those of its third party vendors. the cyber risks the company faces range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target the company because of its prominence in the global marketplace, or due to its ratings of sovereign debt. breaches of moody or moody vendors technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, phishing attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, or malware, employee error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions, may result in manipulation or corruption of sensitive data, material interruptions or malfunctions in the company or such vendors web sites, applications, data processing, or disruption of other business operations, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information held by the company (including information about moody business, employees or customers), as well as sensitive personally identifiable moody 2016 10k 19 table of contents information ( pii ), the disclosure of which could lead to identity theft. measures that moody takes to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cybersecurity requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers. any material breaches of cybersecurity or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to the company systems or those of the company third parties, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could cause the company to experience reputational harm, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard the company clients information, or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results, or financial condition. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. moody business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the u.s. and world financial markets. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional cras, such as mis. a majority of moody credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. potential changes to u.s. tax laws and policy could negatively affect the volume of debt securities issued in the u.s. conditions that reduce issuers ability or willingness to issue debt securities, such as market volatility, declining growth, currency devaluations or other adverse economic trends, reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which moody provides ratings services and thereby adversely affect the fees moody earns in its ratings business. economic and government factors such as a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions and a worsening of the sovereign debt crisis in europe may have an adverse impact on the company business. future debt issuances also could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, widening credit spreads, regulatory and political developments, growth in the use of alternative sources of credit, and defaults by significant issuers. declines or other changes in the markets for debt securities may materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results and financial condition. moody initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business may not be sufficient and cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, cost-reduction initiatives, including those undertaken to date, could make it difficult for the company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. volatility in the financial markets, including changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition, which the company may not be able to successfully offset with cost reductions. the company faces increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers. there is price competition in the credit rating, research, credit risk management markets, research and analytical services and financial training and certification services. moody faces competition globally from other cras and from investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions in research, as well as from in-house research operations. competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and services, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, a challenging business environment and consolidation among customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of competitors and reduce the company customer base. weak economic growth is also intensifying competitive pricing pressures and can result in customers use of free or lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and services, it may lose market share if its pricing is not sufficiently competitive. in addition, the reform act was designed to encourage competition among rating agencies. the formation of additional nrsros may increase pricing and competitive pressures. furthermore, in some of the countries in which moody operates, governments may provide financial or other support to local rating agencies. any inability of moody to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its products and services could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to reputation and credibility concerns. moody reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be significantly impacted. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in rat- 20 moody 2016 10k table of contents ings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities and intentional or unintentional misrepresentations of moody products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications. operational errors, whether by moody or a moody competitor, could also harm the reputation of the company or the credit rating industry. damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. the markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, research and analytical services and financial training and certification services are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands, and evolving regulatory requirements, industry standards and market preferences. the ability to develop and successfully launch and maintain innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. moody competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, and smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may position, price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by moody s. moody also competes indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers; these indirect competitors could choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and services and its growth prospects. further, the increased availability in recent years of free or relatively inexpensive internet information may reduce the demand for moody products and services. for example, in december 2016, the esma launched a database providing access to free, current information on certain credit ratings and rating outlooks. moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by moody failure to make necessary or optimal capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements and the inability of its information technologies to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. any inability of moody to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company has a significant amount of intangible assets. at december 31, 2016, moody had $1,023.6 million of goodwill and $296.4 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet. approximately 73% of these intangibles reside in the ma business and are allocated to the four reporting units within ma: rd&amp;a; ers; financial services training and certifications; and moody analytics knowledge services. the remaining 27% of these intangibles reside in mis and primarily relate to icra. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be especially difficult in periods of market or economic uncertainty and turmoil, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. in addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. an asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures may negatively impact the company. moody success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing industries. as greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at public companies, in the future, moody may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. there is a risk that even if the company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed. moody is highly dependent on the continued services of raymond w. mcdaniel, jr., the president and chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees. the loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and moody inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. moody 2016 10k 21 table of contents moody acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results. moody has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions, dispositions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen its business and grow the company. such transactions present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets, dispositions and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect moody ability to complete such transactions. if moody is unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. if such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth, synergies and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including unanticipated challenges regarding integration of operations, technologies and new employees; the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by the company prior to closing a transaction; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; scrutiny from competition and antitrust authorities; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; diverting management focus from other business operations; and failing to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the company compliance and risk management programs may not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect the company reputation, financial condition and operating results. moody operates in a number of countries, and as a result the company is required to comply with numerous international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. the company ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. moody policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the company risks may not be fully effective, and moody employees or agents may engage in misconduct, fraud or other errors. it is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. if moody employees violate its policies or if the company risk management methods are not effective, the company could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of the company employees, fines, penalties, regulatory sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets or other penalties, and may suffer harm to its reputation, financial condition and operating results. legal protections for the company intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or available to protect the company competitive advantages. moody considers many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. failure to protect the company intellectual property adequately could harm its reputation and affect the company ability to compete effectively. businesses the company acquires also involve intellectual property portfolios, which increase the challenges the company faces in protecting its strategic advantage. in addition, the company operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. on january 6, 2015, a rule with direct relevance to the cra industry was published in the official journal of the european union regarding the types of information that cras are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by esma (the european ratings platform). this rule directly relates to the company intellectual property as it requires that the company provide proprietary information at no cost that the company currently sells, which could result in lost revenue. esma launched the european rating platform for public use on december 1, 2016. unauthorized third parties may also try to obtain and use technology or other information that the company regards as proprietary. it is also possible that moody competitors or other entities could obtain patents related to the types of products and services that moody offers, and attempt to require moody to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to modify or redesign the products or services to avoid infringing, or to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents in order to continue developing and marketing the products and services. even if moody attempts to assert or protect its intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the company will be successful. these risks, and the cost, time and resources needed to address them, may increase as the company business grows and its profile rises in countries with intellectual property regimes that are less protective than the rules and regulations applied in the united states. the company is dependent on the use of third-party software, data, hosted solutions, data centers, and network infrastructure ( together, third party technology ) , and any reduction in third-party product quality or service offerings, could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition or results of operations. moody relies on third party technology in connection with its product development and offerings. the company depends on the ability of third party technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products 22 moody 2016 10k table of contents on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third party technology moody uses may become obsolete, incompatible with future versions of the company products, unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and moody business could be adversely affected if the company is unable to timely or effectively replace such third party technology. the company also monitors its use of third party technology to comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. despite the company efforts, the company cannot ensure that such third parties will permit moody use in the future, resulting in increased third party technology acquisition costs and loss of rights. in addition, the company operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for third party technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third party technology are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also moody competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in tax rates or tax rules could affect future results. as a global company, moody is subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. moody future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates or other factors, including by increased earnings in jurisdictions where we face higher tax rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. changes in the tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, policies and administrative practices, or changes to their interpretation or enforcement, including changes applicable to multinational corporations such as the base erosion profit shifting project being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development and the european union state aid rulings, could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, moody is subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities, and we have experienced increased scrutiny as business has grown. moody regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, however, developments in an audit or litigation could materially and adversely affect us. although we believe our tax estimates and accruals are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the company aggregate cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.2 billion at december 31, 2016 consisted of approximately $1.7 billion located outside of the u.s. except as required under u.s. tax laws, moody does not provide for u.s. taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely in our foreign operations. if our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our u.s. operations, we may be required to accrue or pay u.s. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 on page 47 of this annual report on form 10-k. 56 moody 2016 10k table of contentsrisk factors 18-25 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. u.s. laws and regulations affecting the credit rating industry may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. moody operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s., including the reform act and the financial reform act. these regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. see regulation in part 1, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. these laws and regulations: &raquo; seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business; &raquo; may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings; &raquo; restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings; &raquo; increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and cra operations; &raquo; provide for direct jurisdiction of the sec over cras that seek nrsro status, and grant authority to the sec to inspect the operations of cras; and &raquo; authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards and new pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and aggregate legal defense costs. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking or court rulings, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which moody may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. the company may be required to incur significant expenses in order to ensure compliance and mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on moody business and its customers businesses. for example, new laws and regulations may affect mis communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which mis ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which mis or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for mis ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for rating agencies. further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may negatively affect moody stock price. although these legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on moody operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. financial reforms outside the u.s. affecting the credit rating industry may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. in particular, the eu has adopted a common regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the eu. as a result, esma has direct supervisory authority for cras in the eu and has the power to take enforcement action against non-compliant cras, including through the issuance of public notices, withdrawal of registration and, in some cases, the imposition of fines. mis is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection in the eu. applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of cras hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, and restrictions on cras or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed. additional procedural and substantive requirements include conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules regarding the organization of cras, restrictions on activities deemed to create a conflict of interest, including fees that are based on costs and are non-discriminatory, and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. compliance with the eu regulations may increase costs of operations and could have a significant negative effect on moody operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in addition, exposure to increased liability under the eu regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact moody results of operations. 18 moody 2017 10-k table of contents the eu and other jurisdictions engage in rulemaking on an ongoing basis that could significantly impact operations or the markets for moody products and services, including regulations extending to products and services not currently regulated and regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, expansion of supervisory remit to include non-eu ratings used for regulatory purposes, increasing the level of competition in the market for credit ratings, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings. moody cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on moody business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. financial reforms in the eu and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the company faces exposure to litigation and government regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to rating opinions and other business practices. moody faces exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to mis ratings actions, as well as other business practices and products. if the market value of credit-dependent instruments declines or defaults, whether as a result of difficult economic times, turbulent markets or otherwise, the number of investigations and legal proceedings that moody faces could increase significantly. parties who invest in securities rated by mis may pursue claims against mis or moody for losses they face in their portfolios. moody has faced numerous class action lawsuits and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events linked to the u.s. subprime residential mortgage sector and broader deterioration in the credit markets during the financial crisis of 2007-2008. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues, and any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the u.s. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. moody may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. furthermore, to the extent that moody is unable to achieve dismissals at an early stage and litigation matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by moody increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. additionally, as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, moody may change its accounting estimates, which could require moody to record liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that the company currently faces. due to the number of these proceedings and the significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that moody will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to legal, economic, operational and regulatory risks of operating in multiple jurisdictions. moody conducts operations in various countries outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the company operates may have an impact on the company business. for example, economic uncertainty in the eurozone or elsewhere could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. in addition, operations abroad expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: &raquo; exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and usd; &raquo; restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into usd and the costs, including the tax impact, of repatriating cash held by entities outside the u.s.; &raquo; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; &raquo; differing and potentially conflicting legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards, including as a result of the u.k. referendum vote to withdraw from the eu, brexit; &raquo; current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on cras hired by issuers of securities; &raquo; uncertain and evolving laws and regulations, including those applicable to the financial services industries, such as the european union implementation of the markets in financial instruments directive ii, mifid ii, in january 2018, and to the protection of intellectual property; &raquo; economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; &raquo; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; moody 2017 10-k 19 table of contents &raquo; competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions; &raquo; uncertainties of obtaining data and creating products and services relevant to particular geographic markets; &raquo; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; &raquo; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; &raquo; differing accounting principles and standards; &raquo; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; &raquo; difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and &raquo; potentially adverse tax consequences. additionally, moody is subject to complex u.s., foreign and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to its operations abroad, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. although the company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that the company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on moody reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition. moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. moody ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located, including new york city, the location of moody headquarters, major cities worldwide in which moody has offices, and locations in china used for certain moody back office work. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure (whether or not controlled by the company), including the company electronic delivery systems, data center facilities, or the internet, used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business. many of the company products and services are delivered electronically and the company customers depend on the company ability to receive, store, process, transmit and otherwise rapidly handle very substantial quantities of data and transactions on computer-based networks. the company customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of the company telecommunications, data centers, networks and other electronic delivery systems, including its websites and connections to the internet. the company employees also depend on these systems for internal use. any significant failure, compromise, cyber-breach, interruption or a significant slowdown of operations of the company infrastructure, whether due to human error, capacity constraints, hardware failure or defect, natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise, may impair the company ability to deliver its products and services. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of its major operating systems may not be successful. the company relies on third-party providers to provide certain essential services. while the company believes that such providers are reliable, the company has limited control over the performance of such providers. to the extent any of the company third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fails to adequately expand its services to meet the company needs and the needs of the company customers, the company could experience lower revenues and higher costs. additionally, although the company maintains processes to prevent, detect and recover from a disruption, the company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons ability to service and interact with moody customers may suffer. the company cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from the company failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to moody operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information. the company operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to its business operations and confidential and sensitive information about its customers and employees in the 20 moody 2017 10-k table of contents company computer systems and networks, and in those of its third party vendors. the cyber risks the company faces range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target the company because of its prominence in the global marketplace, or due to its ratings of sovereign debt. breaches of moody or moody vendors technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, phishing attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, or malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions, may result in manipulation or corruption of sensitive data, material interruptions or malfunctions in the company or such vendors web sites, applications, data processing, or disruption of other business operations, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information held by the company (including information about moody business, employees or customers), as well as sensitive personally identifiable information ( pii ), the disclosure of which could lead to identity theft. measures that moody takes to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. to conduct its operations, the company regularly moves data across national borders, and consequently is subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to moody is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, becomes effective in may 2018. additionally, other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time. the company has invested and continues to invest in risk management and information security measures in order to protect its systems and data, including employee training, disaster plans, and technical defenses, in order to protect its systems and data. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex, and sophisticated global cyber threats. despite the company best efforts, it is not fully insulated from data breaches and system disruptions. recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cybersecurity requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers. any material breaches of cybersecurity or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to the company systems or those of the company third parties, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could cause the company to experience reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, regulatory actions and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard the company customers information, or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment levels and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. moody business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the u.s. and world financial markets. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional cras, such as mis. a majority of moody credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. the tax act, in addition to other changes to u.s. tax laws and policy, could negatively affect the volume of debt securities issued in the u.s. for example, the tax act will limit deductibility on interest payments and significantly reduce the tax cost associated with the repatriation of cash held outside the u.s., both of which could negatively affect the volume of debt securities issued. conditions that reduce issuers ability or willingness to issue debt securities, such as market volatility, declining growth, currency devaluations or other adverse economic trends, reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which moody provides ratings services and thereby adversely affect the fees moody earns in its ratings business. economic and government factors such as a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions or a re-emergence of the sovereign debt crisis in europe may have an adverse impact on the company business. future debt issuances also could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, widening credit spreads, regulatory and political developments, growth in the use of alternative sources of credit, and defaults by significant issuers. declines or other changes in the markets for debt securities may materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results and financial condition. moody initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business may not be sufficient and cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, cost-reduction initiatives, including those under- moody 2017 10-k 21 table of contents taken to date, could make it difficult for the company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. volatility in the financial markets, including changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition, which the company may not be able to successfully offset with cost reductions. the company faces increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers. there is price competition in the credit rating, research, credit risk management markets, research and analytical services and financial training and certification services. moody faces competition globally from other cras and from investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions in research, as well as from in-house research operations. competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and services, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, a challenging business environment and consolidation among customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of competitors and reduce the company customer base. weak economic growth intensifies competitive pricing pressures and can result in customers use of free or lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and services, it may lose market share if its pricing is not sufficiently competitive. in addition, the reform act was designed to encourage competition among rating agencies. the formation of additional nrsros may increase pricing and competitive pressures. furthermore, in some of the countries in which moody operates, governments may provide financial or other support to local rating agencies. any inability of moody to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its products and services could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to reputation and credibility concerns. moody reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be significantly impacted. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities and intentional or unintentional misrepresentations of moody products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications. operational errors, whether by moody or a moody competitor, could also harm the reputation of the company or the credit rating industry. damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on moody business, operating results and financial condition, as well as on the company ability to find suitable candidates for acquisition. the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. the markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, research and analytical services and financial training and certification services are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer demands, and evolving regulatory requirements, industry standards and market preferences. the ability to develop and successfully launch and maintain innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. moody competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, and smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may position, price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by moody s. moody also competes indirectly against consulting firms and technology and information providers; these indirect competitors could in the future choose to compete directly with moody s, cease doing business with moody or change the terms under which it does business with moody in a way that could negatively impact our business. in addition, customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and services and its growth prospects. further, the increased availability in recent years of free or relatively inexpensive internet information may reduce the demand for moody products and services. for example, in december 2016, esma launched a database providing access to free, current information on certain credit ratings and rating outlooks. moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by moody failure to make necessary or optimal capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements and the inability of its information technologies to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. any inability of moody to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures may negatively impact the company. moody success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract high quality 22 moody 2017 10-k table of contents employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing industries. as greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at public companies, in the future, moody may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. there is a risk that even if the company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed. moody is highly dependent on the continued services of raymond w. mcdaniel, jr., the president and chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees. the loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and moody inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. moody acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions or internal technology investments may not produce anticipated results exposing the company to future significant impairment charges relating to its goodwill, intangible assets or property and equipment. moody has entered into and expects to continue to enter into acquisition, disposition or other strategic transactions and expects to make various investments to strengthen its business and grow the company. such transactions as well as internal technology investments present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets, dispositions and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect moody ability to complete such transactions. if moody is unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if opportunities for expansion do not arise, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. additionally, we make significant investments in technology including software developed for internal-use which is time-intensive and complex to implement. such investments may not be successful or may not result in the anticipated benefits resulting in asset write-offs. in august 2017, moody acquired bureau van dijk for $3,542.0 million. the anticipated growth, synergies and other strategic objectives of the bureau van dijk acquisition, as well as other completed transactions, may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including unanticipated challenges regarding integration of operations, technologies and new employees; the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by the company prior to closing a transaction; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; scrutiny from competition and antitrust authorities; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; future developments may impair the value of purchased goodwill or intangible assets; diverting management focus from other business operations; failing to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies; challenges retaining the customers of the acquired business; and for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. at december 31, 2017, moody had $3,753.2 million of goodwill and $1,631.6 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet, both of which increased significantly due to the acquisition of bureau van dijk. approximately 92% of the goodwill and intangible assets reside in the ma business, including those related to bureau van dijk, and are allocated to the five reporting units within ma: rd&amp;a; ers; financial services training and certifications; moody analytics knowledge services; and bureau van dijk. the remaining 8% of goodwill and intangible assets reside in mis and primarily relate to icra. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in a significant asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be especially difficult in periods of market or economic uncertainty and turmoil, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. in addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. an asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the company compliance and risk management programs may not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect the company reputation, financial condition and operating results. moody operates in a number of countries, and as a result the company is required to comply and quickly adapt with numerous international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. the company ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations, moody 2017 10-k 23 table of contents including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. moody policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the company risks, including risks resulting from acquisitions, may not be fully effective, and moody employees or agents may engage in misconduct, fraud or other errors. it is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. if moody employees violate its policies or if the company risk management methods are not effective, the company could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of the company employees, fines, penalties, regulatory sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets or other penalties, and may suffer harm to its reputation, financial condition and operating results. legal protections for the company intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or available to protect the company competitive advantages. moody considers many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. failure to protect the company intellectual property adequately could harm its reputation and affect the company ability to compete effectively. businesses the company acquires also involve intellectual property portfolios, which increase the challenges the company faces in protecting its strategic advantage. in addition, the company operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. on january 6, 2015, a rule with direct relevance to the cra industry was published in the official journal of the european union regarding the types of information that cras are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by esma (the european ratings platform). this rule directly relates to the company intellectual property as it requires that the company provide proprietary information at no cost that the company currently sells, which could result in lost revenue. esma launched the european rating platform for public use on december 1, 2016. unauthorized third parties may also try to obtain and use technology or other information that the company regards as proprietary. it is also possible that moody competitors or other entities could obtain patents related to the types of products and services that moody offers, and attempt to require moody to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to modify or redesign the products or services to avoid infringing, or to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents in order to continue developing and marketing the products and services. even if moody attempts to assert or protect its intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the company will be successful. these risks, and the cost, time and resources needed to address them, may increase as the company business grows and its profile rises in countries with intellectual property regimes that are less protective than the rules and regulations applied in the united states. the company is dependent on the use of third-party software, data, hosted solutions, data centers, cloud and network infrastructure (together, third party technology ), and any reduction in third-party product quality or service offerings, could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition or results of operations. moody relies on third party technology in connection with its product development and offerings and operations. the company depends on the ability of third party technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third party technology moody uses may become obsolete, incompatible with future versions of the company products, unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and moody business could be adversely affected if the company is unable to timely or effectively replace such third party technology. the company also monitors its use of third party technology to comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. despite the company efforts, the company cannot ensure that such third parties will permit moody use in the future, resulting in increased third party technology acquisition costs and loss of rights. in addition, the company operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for third party technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third party technology are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also moody competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in tax rates or tax rules could affect future results. as a global company, moody is subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. as a result, our effective tax rate is determined based on the pre-tax income and applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. moody future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates or other factors, including by increased earnings in jurisdictions where moody faces higher tax rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which moody is not able to realize the related tax benefit, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. changes in the tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, policies and administrative practices, or changes to their interpretation or enforcement, including changes applicable to multinational corporations such as the base erosion profit shifting project being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development and the european union state aid rulings, could have a material adverse effect on the company effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition. the tax act made significant changes to the u.s. federal tax laws. many aspects of the new legislation are currently uncertain or unclear and may not be clarified for some time. as 24 moody 2017 10-k table of contents additional regulatory guidance is issued interpreting or clarifying the tax act or if the tax accounting rules are modified, there may be adjustments or changes to our estimate of the mandatory one-time deemed repatriation tax liability ( transition tax ) on previously untaxed accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in 2017. additional regulatory guidance may also affect our expected future effective tax rates and tax assets and liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on moody business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. furthermore, the tax act may impact the volume of debt securities issued as discussed in the risk factor, changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment levels and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. in addition, moody is subject to regular examination of its income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities, and the company is experiencing increased scrutiny as its business grows. moody regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits; however, developments in an audit or litigation could materially and adversely affect the company. although the company believes its tax estimates and accruals are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in its historical income tax provisions, accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, which could materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures of market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 on page 51 of this annual report on form 10-k. moody 2017 10-k 59 table of contentsrisk factors 17-25 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. if any of the following risks occur, moody business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. u.s. laws and regulations affecting the credit rating industry and moody customers may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. moody operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s., including the reform act and the financial reform act. these regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. see regulation in part 1, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. these laws and regulations: &raquo; seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business; &raquo; may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings; &raquo; restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings; &raquo; increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and cra operations; &raquo; provide for direct jurisdiction of the sec over cras that seek nrsro status, and grant authority to the sec to inspect the operations of cras; and &raquo; authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards and new pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and aggregate legal defense costs. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking or court rulings, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which moody may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. the company may be required to incur significant expenses in order to ensure compliance and mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on moody business and its customers businesses. for example, new laws and regulations may affect mis communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which mis ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which mis or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for mis ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for rating agencies. further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may negatively affect moody stock price. although these legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect moody in a disproportionate manner. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on moody operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. in addition, ma derives a significant amount of its sales in the ers and professional services segments from banks and other financial services providers who are subject to regulatory oversight. u.s. banking regulators, including the office of the comptroller of the currency, the federal deposit insurance corporation, the board of governors of the federal reserve system and the consumer financial protection board, as well as many state agencies have issued guidance to insured depository institutions and other providers of financial services on assessing and managing risks associated with third-party relationships, which include all business arrangements between a financial services provider and another entity, by contract or otherwise, and generally requires banks and financial services providers to exercise comprehensive oversight throughout each phase of a bank or financial service provider business arrangement with third-party service providers, and instructs banks and financial service providers to adopt risk management processes commensurate with the level of risk and complexity of their third-party relationships. in light of this, ma existing or potential bank and financial services customers subject to this guidance may continue to revise their third-party risk management policies and processes and the terms on which they do business with ma, which may delay or reduce sales to such customers, adversely affect ma relationship with such customers, increase the costs of doing business with such customers and/or result in ma assuming greater financial and legal risk under service agreements with such customers. financial reforms outside the u.s. affecting the credit rating industry and moody customers may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. in particular, the eu has adopted a common regulatory framework moody 2018 10-k 17 table of contents for rating agencies operating in the eu. as a result, esma has direct supervisory authority for cras in the eu and has the power to take enforcement action against non-compliant cras, including through the issuance of public notices, withdrawal of registration and, in some cases, the imposition of fines. although the commission published a report in 2016 concluding that no new european legislation was needed for the industry at that time, the report also stated that it would continue to monitor the credit rating industry and analyze approaches that may strengthen existing regulation. for example, in 2018, esma published final guidance on the applicability of eu regulation to endorsed ratings which became effective on january 1, 2019. see regulation in part 1, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. mis is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection in the eu. applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of cras hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, and restrictions on cras or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed. additional procedural and substantive requirements include conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules regarding the organization of cras, restrictions on activities deemed to create a conflict of interest, including fees that are based on costs and are non-discriminatory, and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. compliance with the eu regulations may increase costs of operations and could have a significant negative effect on moody operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that moody presently is unable to predict. in addition, exposure to increased liability under the eu regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact moody results of operations. in addition, regulators in europe and other foreign markets in which ma is active have issued guidance similar to that issued in the u.s. relating to financial institutions assessment and management of risks associated with third-party relationships. such guidelines include the committee of european banking supervisors guidelines on outsourcing and the european banking authority recommendations on outsourcing to cloud providers (each of which is expected to be superseded by the european banking authority guidelines on outsourcing, currently under development and expected to be issued in early 2019). in light of this, ma existing or potential bank and financial services customers subject to this guidance may continue to revise their third-party risk management policies and processes and the terms on which they do business with ma, which may delay or reduce sales to such customers, adversely affect ma relationship with such customers, increase the costs of doing business with such customers and/or result in ma assuming greater financial and legal risk under service agreements with such customers. the eu and other jurisdictions engage in rulemaking on an ongoing basis that could significantly impact operations or the markets for moody products and services, including regulations extending to products and services not currently regulated and regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, expansion of supervisory remit to include non-eu ratings used for regulatory purposes, increasing the level of competition in the market for credit ratings, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings, and laws and regulations related to collection, use, accuracy, correction and sharing of personal information by cras. additionally, as of the date of the filing of this annual report on form 10-k, there remains uncertainty regarding the impact that brexit will have on the credit rating industry within the u.k., the eu and other jurisdictions. although moody will monitor these developments, moody cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on moody business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. financial reforms in the eu and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the company faces exposure to litigation and government regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to rating opinions and other business practices. moody faces exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to mis ratings actions, as well as other business practices and products. if the market value of credit-dependent instruments declines or defaults, whether as a result of difficult economic times, turbulent markets or otherwise, the number of investigations and legal proceedings that moody faces could increase significantly. parties who invest in securities rated by mis may pursue claims against mis or moody for losses they face in their portfolios. moody has faced numerous class action lawsuits and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events linked to the u.s. subprime residential mortgage sector and broader deterioration in the credit markets during the financial crisis of 2007-2008. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues, and any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the u.s. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. moody may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. furthermore, to the extent that moody is unable to achieve dismissals at an early stage and litigation matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by moody increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. 18 moody 2018 10-k table of contents additionally, as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, moody will continue to review the latest information available and may change its accounting estimates, which could require moody to record liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that the company currently faces. due to the number of these proceedings and the significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that moody will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to legal, economic, operational and regulatory risks of operating in multiple jurisdictions. moody conducts operations in various countries outside the u.s. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the company operates may have an impact on the company business. for example, economic uncertainty in the eurozone or elsewhere, including in latin america, could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. in addition, operations abroad expose moody to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: &raquo; exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and usd; &raquo; restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into usd and the costs, including the tax impact, of repatriating cash held by entities outside the u.s.; &raquo; u.s. laws affecting overseas operations, including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions, such as those related to the u.s. relationship with china; &raquo; differing and potentially conflicting legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards, including as a result of the u.k. referendum vote to withdraw from the eu, brexit; &raquo; an extension or delay of the u.k. withdrawal from the eu, or the u.k. leaving the eu with no agreement in place ( hard brexit ); &raquo; current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on cras hired by issuers of securities; &raquo; uncertain and evolving laws and regulations, including those applicable to the financial services industries, such as the european union implementation of the markets in financial instruments directive ii, mifid ii, in january 2018, and to the protection of intellectual property; &raquo; the transition away from libor to the secured overnight financing rate, sofr, as a benchmark reference for short-term interests; &raquo; economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; &raquo; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; &raquo; competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions; &raquo; uncertainties of obtaining data and creating products and services relevant to particular geographic markets; &raquo; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; &raquo; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; &raquo; differing accounting principles and standards; &raquo; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including the expected relocation and/or restaffing of employees due to brexit; &raquo; difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and &raquo; potentially adverse tax consequences. additionally, moody is subject to complex u.s., foreign and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to its operations abroad, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. although the company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that the company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on moody reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition. moody 2018 10-k 19 table of contents moody operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. moody ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which moody is located, including new york city, the location of moody headquarters, major cities worldwide in which moody has offices, and locations in china used for certain moody back office work. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure (whether or not controlled by the company), including the company electronic delivery systems, data center facilities, or the internet, used by the company or third parties with or through whom moody conducts business. many of the company products and services are delivered electronically and the company customers depend on the company ability to receive, store, process, transmit and otherwise rapidly handle very substantial quantities of data and transactions on computer-based networks. some of moody operations require complex processes and, although the company has instituted extensive controls to reduce the risk of error inherent in our operations, such risk cannot be completely eliminated. the company customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of the company telecommunications, data centers, networks and other electronic delivery systems, including its websites and connections to the internet. the company employees also depend on these systems for internal use. any significant failure, compromise, cyber-breach, interruption or a significant slowdown of operations of the company infrastructure, whether due to human error, capacity constraints, hardware failure or defect, natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise, may impair the company ability to deliver its products and services. moody efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of its major operating systems may not be successful. the company relies on third-party providers to provide certain essential services. while the company believes that such providers are reliable, the company has limited control over the performance of such providers. to the extent any of the company third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fails to adequately expand its services to meet the company needs and the needs of the company customers, the company could experience lower revenues and higher costs. additionally, although the company maintains processes to prevent, detect and recover from a disruption, the company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of moody locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons ability to service and interact with moody customers may suffer. the company cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from the company failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to moody operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information. the company operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to its business operations and confidential and sensitive information about its customers and employees in the company computer systems and networks, and in those of its third party vendors. the cyber risks the company faces range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target the company because of its prominence in the global marketplace, or due to its ratings of sovereign debt. breaches of moody or moody vendors technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, phishing attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, or malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions, may result in manipulation or corruption of sensitive data, material interruptions or malfunctions in the company or such vendors web sites, applications, data processing, or disruption of other business operations, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information held by the company (including information about moody business, employees or customers), as well as sensitive personally identifiable information (pii), the disclosure of which could lead to identity theft. measures that moody takes to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. to conduct its operations, the company regularly moves data across national borders, and consequently is subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to moody is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective on may 25, 2018, greatly increased the jurisdictional reach of european union privacy law and added a broad array of requirements for processing personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches. failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenue. additionally, other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. further, california recently enacted legislation, the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), that will, among other things, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to california consumers, and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information, when it goes into effect on january 1, 2020. legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the ccpa before it goes into effect, and it remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to this legislation or how it will be interpreted. the effects of the ccpa potentially are significant, however, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses. all of these evolving 20 moody 2018 10-k table of contents compliance and operational requirements have required changes to certain business practices, thereby increasing costs, may result in negative publicity or increased operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject the company to remedies that may harm its business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices, and expose it to litigation, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties. the company has invested and continues to invest in risk management and information security measures in order to protect its systems and data, including employee training, disaster plans, and technical defenses. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex, and sophisticated global cyber threats. despite the company best efforts, it is not fully insulated from data breaches and system disruptions. recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cybersecurity requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers. any material breaches of cybersecurity, including the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data, or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to the company systems or those of the company third parties, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could cause the company to experience reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, fines, regulatory actions and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard the company customers information, or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. the company is dependent on the use of third-party software, data, hosted solutions, data centers, cloud and network infrastructure (together, third party technology ), and any reduction in third-party product quality or service offerings, could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition or results of operations. moody relies on third party technology in connection with its product development and offerings and operations. the company depends on the ability of third party technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third party technology moody uses may become obsolete, incompatible with future versions of the company products, unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and moody business could be adversely affected if the company is unable to timely or effectively replace such third party technology. the company also monitors its use of third party technology to comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. despite the company efforts, the company cannot ensure that such third parties will permit moody use in the future, resulting in increased third party technology acquisition costs and loss of rights. in addition, the company operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for third party technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third party technology are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also moody competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment levels and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. moody business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the u.s. and world financial markets. furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional cras, such as mis. a majority of moody credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. the tax act, in addition to other changes to u.s. tax laws and policy, could negatively affect the volume of debt securities issued in the u.s. for example, the tax act limits deductibility on interest payments and significantly reduce the tax cost associated with the repatriation of cash held outside the u.s., both of which could negatively affect the volume of debt securities issued. conditions that reduce issuers ability or willingness to issue debt securities, such as market volatility, declining growth, currency devaluations or other adverse economic trends, reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which moody provides ratings services and thereby adversely affect the fees moody earns in its ratings business. economic and government factors such as a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions, a re-emergence of the sovereign debt crisis in europe, the ultimate brexit outcome and current uncertainty in various other jurisdictions, may have an adverse impact on the company business. future debt issuances also could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, widening credit spreads, regulatory and political developments, growth in the use of alternative sources of credit, and defaults by significant issuers. declines or other changes in the markets for debt securities may materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results and financial condition. moody 2018 10-k 21 table of contents moody initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business may not be sufficient and cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the company operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. further, cost-reduction initiatives, including those under-taken to date, could make it difficult for the company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. volatility in the financial markets, including changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition, which the company may not be able to successfully offset with cost reductions. the company faces increased pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers. there is price competition in the credit rating, research, credit risk management markets, research and analytical services and financial training and certification services. moody faces competition globally from other cras and from investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions in research, as well as from in-house research operations. competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and services, as well as increased competition from non-nrsros that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. at the same time, a challenging business environment and consolidation among customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of competitors and reduce the company customer base. weak economic growth intensifies competitive pricing pressures and can result in customers use of free or lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources or their development of alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk that replace the products currently purchased from moody s. while moody seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and services, it may lose market share if its pricing is not sufficiently competitive. in addition, the reform act was designed to encourage competition among rating agencies. the formation of additional nrsros may increase pricing and competitive pressures. furthermore, in some of the countries in which moody operates, governments may provide financial or other support to local rating agencies. any inability of moody to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its products and services could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to reputation and credibility concerns. moody reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. to the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or moody s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, moody business could be significantly impacted. factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities and intentional or unintentional misrepresentations of moody products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications. operational errors, whether by moody or a moody competitor, could also harm the reputation of the company or the credit rating industry. damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on moody business, operating results and financial condition, as well as on the company ability to find suitable candidates for acquisition. the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. the markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, research and analytical services and financial training and certification services are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer demands, and evolving regulatory requirements, industry standards and market preferences. the ability to develop and successfully launch and maintain innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends in a timely and cost-effective manner is a key factor in maintaining market share. moody competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, and smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by moody s, or may position, price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by moody s. moody also competes indirectly against consulting firms and technology and information providers; these indirect competitors could in the future choose to compete directly with moody s, cease doing business with moody or change the terms under which it does business with moody in a way that could negatively impact our business. in addition, customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. such developments could affect demand for moody products and services and its growth prospects. further, the increased availability in recent years of free or relatively inexpensive internet information may reduce the demand for moody products and services. moody growth prospects also could be adversely affected by moody failure to make necessary or optimal capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements and the inability of its information technologies to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. any inability of moody to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. 22 moody 2018 10-k table of contents possible loss of key employees and related compensation cost pressures may negatively impact the company. moody success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and moody ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing industries. as greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at public companies, in the future, moody may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than moody s. moody also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the u.s. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. additionally, relocation and/or restaffing of employees due to brexit could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talent for our european operations. there is a risk that even if the company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed. moody is highly dependent on the continued services of raymond w. mcdaniel, jr., the president and chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees. the loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and moody inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. moody acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions or internal technology investments may not produce anticipated results exposing the company to future significant impairment charges relating to its goodwill, intangible assets or property and equipment. moody has entered into and expects to continue to enter into acquisition, disposition or other strategic transactions and expects to make various investments to strengthen its business and grow the company. such transactions as well as internal technology investments present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets, dispositions and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect moody ability to complete such transactions and complete such transactions on favorable terms. if moody is unsuccessful in completing such transactions on favorable terms or if opportunities for expansion do not arise, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. additionally, the company makes significant investments in technology including software developed for internal-use which is time-intensive and complex to implement. such investments may not be successful or may not result in the anticipated benefits resulting in asset write-offs. in august 2017, moody acquired bureau van dijk for $3,542.0 million. the anticipated growth, synergies and other strategic objectives of the bureau van dijk acquisition, as well as other completed transactions, may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including unanticipated challenges regarding integration of operations, technologies and new employees; the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by the company prior to closing a transaction; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; scrutiny from competition and antitrust authorities; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; future developments that impair the value of purchased goodwill or intangible assets; diversion of management focus from other business operations; failure to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies; challenges retaining the customers of the acquired business; coordination of product, sales, marketing and program and systems management functions; integration of employees from the acquired business into moody organization; integration of the acquired business accounting, information technology, human resources, legal and other administrative systems with moody s; and for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. at december 31, 2018, moody had $3,781.3 million of goodwill and $1,566.1 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet, both of which increased significantly due to the acquisition of bureau van dijk in 2017. approximately 94% of the goodwill and intangible assets reside in the ma business, including those related to bureau van dijk, and are allocated to the six reporting units within ma: content; ers; mals; maks; bureau van dijk; and reis. the remaining 6% of goodwill and intangible assets reside in mis and primarily relate to icra. failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in a significant asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be especially difficult in periods of market or economic uncertainty and turmoil, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. in addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. an asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on moody business, operating results and financial condition. moody 2018 10-k 23 table of contents the company compliance and risk management programs may not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect the company reputation, financial condition and operating results. moody operates in a number of countries, and as a result the company is required to comply and quickly adapt with numerous international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. the company ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. moody policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the company risks, including risks resulting from acquisitions, may not be fully effective, and moody employees or agents may engage in misconduct, fraud or other errors. it is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. if moody employees violate its policies or if the company risk management methods are not effective, the company could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of the company employees, fines, penalties, regulatory sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets or other penalties, and may suffer harm to its reputation, financial condition and operating results. legal protections for the company intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or available to protect the company competitive advantages. moody considers many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. failure to protect the company intellectual property adequately could harm its reputation and affect the company ability to compete effectively. businesses the company acquires also involve intellectual property portfolios, which increase the challenges the company faces in protecting its strategic advantage. in addition, the company operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. on january 6, 2015, a rule with direct relevance to the cra industry was published in the official journal of the european union regarding the types of information that cras are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by esma (the european ratings platform). this rule directly relates to the company intellectual property as it requires that the company provide proprietary information at no cost that the company currently sells, which could result in lost revenue. esma launched the european rating platform for public use on december 1, 2016. unauthorized third parties may also try to obtain and use technology or other information that the company regards as proprietary. it is also possible that moody competitors or other entities could obtain patents related to the types of products and services that moody offers, and attempt to require moody to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to modify or redesign the products or services to avoid infringing, or to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents in order to continue developing and marketing the products and services. even if moody attempts to assert or protect its intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the company will be successful. the company ability to establish, maintain and protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights against theft, misappropriation or infringement could be materially and adversely affected by insufficient and/or changing proprietary rights and intellectual property legal protections in some jurisdictions and markets. these risks, and the cost, time and resources needed to address them, may increase as the company business grows and its profile rises in countries with intellectual property regimes that are less protective than the rules and regulations applied in the united states. changes in tax rates or tax rules could affect future results. as a global company, moody is subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. as a result, our effective tax rate is determined based on the pre-tax income and applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which the company operates. moody future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates or other factors, including by increased earnings in jurisdictions where moody faces higher tax rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which moody is not able to realize the related tax benefit, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. changes in the tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, policies and administrative practices, or changes to their interpretation or enforcement, including changes applicable to multinational corporations such as the base erosion profit shifting initiative being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development, which requires companies to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, and the european union state aid rulings, could have a material adverse effect on the company effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition and may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries. for example, the tax act made significant changes to the u.s. federal tax laws. many aspects of the new legislation are currently uncertain or unclear and may not be clarified for some time. as additional regulatory guidance is issued interpreting or clarifying the tax act or if the tax accounting rules are modified, there may be adjustments or changes to the company determination of its mandatory one-time deemed repatriation tax liability ( transition tax ) on previously untaxed accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in 2017. additional regulatory guidance may also affect the company expected future effective tax rates and tax assets and liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on moody business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. furthermore, the tax act may impact the volume of debt securities issued as discussed in the risk factor, changes in the volume of 24 moody 2018 10-k table of contents debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment levels and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact the nature and economics of the company business. in addition, moody is subject to regular examination of its income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities, and the company is experiencing increased scrutiny as its business grows. moody regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits; however, developments in an audit or litigation could materially and adversely affect the company. although the company believes its tax estimates and accruals are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in its historical income tax provisions, accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, which could materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures of market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information in response to this item is set forth under the caption market risk in part ii, item 7 on page 49 of this annual report on form 10-k. 58 moody 2018 10-k table of contents